<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2><p epub:type="title">An Arrest</p></hgroup>

<p>Inspector Blaikie had made arrangements to see
Superintendent Wilson after lunch; and at half-past two
they were closeted together in the superintendent’s office. The
decision about the inquest could be no longer delayed: it
was imperative that the police should make up their minds
how far they would place the facts which they had discovered
before the coroner’s jury. The police nearly always hate a
coroner’s jury⁠—at least in cases in which murder is suspected
or known. They dislike the premature disclosure of their
hardly gathered clues before their case is complete: they dread
the misdirected inquisitiveness of some juryman who may
unknowingly give the criminal just the hint he wants. Above
all, they object to looking like fools; and whether they present
an incomplete case, or withhold the information they possess,
that is very likely to be their fate in the presence of the good
men and true and in the columns of the newspapers the next
morning.</p>

<p>The Brooklyn case had created an immense popular
excitement. Neither Prinsep nor George Brooklyn was much
known to the general public; but Sir Vernon was still a great
popular figure, and pictures of Isabelle Raven⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> George
Brooklyn⁠—remembered as the finest actress of a few years
ago, had been published in almost every paper. The reporters
had, indeed, little enough to go upon; for after the first
sensational story of the discovery of the bodies, they had been
put off with very scanty information. Nothing connecting
Walter Brooklyn with the crime had yet been published; but
Inspector Blaikie knew that, as the club servants had fastened
on that side of the story, it was certain to reach some of the
papers before many days passed. Still, it was a moot point
whether or not it would be best to keep all reference to
Walter Brooklyn out of the inquest proceedings, if it were possible
to do so.</p>

<p>Inspector Blaikie would usually have been inclined to favour
any plan which aimed at keeping the coroner’s jury in the dark.
That was, in his view, a part of the duty of a good police
officer. But, on this occasion, he had become so firmly
convinced of Walter Brooklyn’s guilt that he was set on a
different method of proceeding. What he wanted was to be
allowed to arrest Walter Brooklyn at once, in advance of the
inquest, and then to tell the coroner’s jury the full story of the
evidence against him, in the hope that its publication in the
Press would result in the offering of corroborative evidence
from outside. He felt more and more certain that Brooklyn
had committed both the murders; but he was not so sanguine as
to suppose that he had yet enough evidence to assure a
favourable verdict⁠—that is, a verdict against Walter⁠—from a jury.
There was at least a specious case to be made out in favour of
the view that Prinsep had killed George, and a skilful
barrister would make much of this, using also every shred of
evidence for the view that George had killed Prinsep, in the hope
of so muddling the mind of the jury that they would not dare
to bring in any verdict other than “Not Guilty.” But only
a very little further evidence would give him enough to hang
Walter Brooklyn on one if not both of the charges. It was
worth while even to submit to the foolish heckling of a
coroner’s jury, if by doing so he could hope to get the further
evidence he wanted. His case so far, he recognised, depended
on an inference; and it would be just like a jury to turn him
down. Juries, in his view, always did the wrong thing if
you gave them half a chance. Still, in this case it was worth
while, in the hope of getting further evidence, even to endure
their folly.</p>

<p>This reasoning of Inspector Blaikie’s failed to commend
itself to Superintendent Wilson. He, too, saw that the case
against Walter Brooklyn was not conclusive, and, unlike the
inspector, he was not himself by any means convinced that
Walter Brooklyn was guilty. But he thought he knew a way
of bringing the matter to a supreme test, and of making the
suspected man either proclaim his own guilt, or remove the
most serious ground of suspicion against him. His idea was
that, at least during the first stages of the inquest, the police
should say nothing of those discoveries which implicated
Walter Brooklyn, but that they should arrange for Walter himself
to be called up to give evidence as if there were no suspicion
against him. He could be used to identify the deceased; and
a hint to the coroner would ensure that he should be asked to
give an account of his movements on Tuesday evening. He
would then have either to admit or to deny having been in
Prinsep’s room⁠—either to tell at last what he must know about
the murders, or to perjure himself in such a manner as would
leave no doubt of his complicity, and little of his guilt.</p>

<p>Superintendent Wilson, then, would by no means agree to
the execution of a warrant for Walter Brooklyn’s arrest
before the inquest; for he still thought that he might be
innocent and might be persuaded to tell openly what he knew⁠—a
chance which his arrest would altogether destroy. But he
agreed that, if Walter Brooklyn plainly perjured himself at
the inquest, his arrest would be indispensable, and there would
be no purpose in leaving him longer at large. He agreed,
therefore, to take at once the necessary steps to procure the
warrant, and he arranged that it should be handed to the inspector,
for execution if and when the need arose. But on no account
must it be executed until after the inquest, or save in
accordance with the conditions which he had laid down. Only if
Walter’s guilt or complicity, and his refusal to tell freely what
he knew, were plainly shown, would the superintendent agree
to the arrest. Meanwhile, of course, the man should be
watched.</p>

<p>So it happened that, although the inquest was for the most
part a purely formal affair, Walter Brooklyn was among those
who were called upon to give evidence. With most of its
proceedings we need not concern ourselves: we know well enough
already almost all that the coroner’s jury was allowed to know.
Indeed, we know a good deal more; for Inspector Blaikie, in
his evidence, said not a word either of Walter Brooklyn’s
walking-stick, or of the telephone message which he had sent
from Liskeard House. No Club servant was called, and
there was no reference to the meeting with Charis Lang, who
was not in any way brought into the case. Carter Woodman,
indeed, gave evidence; but he had been warned in advance by
the inspector, and he said nothing which could appear to
implicate Walter Brooklyn.</p>

<p>To the reporters and to the members of the police who
were present, crowding to suffocation the confined space of
the coroner’s court, it became more and more evident that the
inquest was not likely to throw any light upon the mystery.
They heard, from the police witnesses, from the household
servants, and from Joan Cowper, how the bodies had been
found. Walter Brooklyn and others gave purely formal
evidence of identification: the doctors for once told a plain story.
George Brooklyn had been killed by a savage blow on the
back of the head, dealt without doubt by a powerful man
with the stone club of Hercules, which was produced in court
with the bloodstains still upon it. Prinsep, too, had probably
been killed by the blow on the back of his head, dealt with
an unknown instrument. The knife thrust at the heart, which
had missed its object, had been made subsequently, and would
not by itself have caused sudden death. Inspector Blaikie’s
evidence, indeed, promised to be more exciting; for he told
of the finding of George Brooklyn’s handkerchief under
Prinsep’s body, produced a knife, similar to that found in the
body, which he had found in George Brooklyn’s office, showed
the broken fragments of Prinsep’s cigar-holder found in the
garden, and photographs of fingerprints found on the stone
club and others taken from Prinsep’s hands. This was
exciting enough; but it did more to mystify than to enlighten
the public and the reporters. Still, it was excellent copy; and
the reporters, and later the editors and sub-editors, made the
most of it. Then, when the inquest seemed practically over,
the coroner, a sharp little man who had attended strictly to
business and said as little as possible throughout the
proceedings, acted on the hint given him by the police, and
ordered Walter Brooklyn to be recalled. Walter’s manner,
when he gave his earlier evidence and was asked no more than
a couple of formal questions, had shown plainly to the
inspector, and also to Joan and Ellery, who were sitting
together, that he was surprised at being let off so lightly. As
the inquest went on, and nothing was said to draw him into
the mystery, his expression, troubled and puzzled in the earlier
stages, gradually cleared, and, up to the moment when he
suddenly found himself recalled, he had been growing more
and more sure that the suspicions of the police against him
had been somehow dispelled. But now, in an instant, he
realised that they had been deliberately keeping back
everything that could seem to connect him with the case, not
because they did not suspect him still, but because they had
carefully set a trap into which they hoped that he would fall.
For a moment, a scared look came into his face; but, when
he stepped again into the witness stand, he wore his
usual rather ill-humoured and supercilious expression.
Immaculately dressed and groomed, he was a man who looked
precisely what he was⁠—an elderly, but still dissipated, man
about town.</p>

<p>This time the questions which the coroner asked were far
from formal. He began with what was plainly a leading
question⁠—</p>

<p>“It has been suggested to me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn, that you may
be able to throw some further light on this tragedy. This
morning you were given no opportunity to make a general
statement; but I desire to give you that opportunity now. Is
there anything further that you are in a position to tell us?”</p>

<p>“I know no more of the affair than I have heard in this
court to-day⁠—or previously from the police.” Walter
Brooklyn added the last words after a noticeable pause.
“Nevertheless, there is a statement that I want to make. It has
been suggested, not in this court, but earlier to me by Inspector
Blaikie⁠—that I was in Liskeard House on Tuesday evening.
I desire to say that I called at Liskeard House shortly after
ten o’clock and waited for a few minutes in the outer hall.
Then I went away; and since that time⁠—perhaps twenty
past ten on Tuesday night⁠—I have not been in either the house
or the garden. Of the circumstances of the tragedy I know
nothing at all except what I have heard at this inquest or from
the police.”</p>

<p>Walter Brooklyn’s statement created a sensation; for here
was the first hint of a suspicion entertained by somebody as
to the real murderer. Clearly the police had been keeping
something back⁠—something which would incriminate the man
who was now giving evidence. Of course, after interrogating
Walter Brooklyn the police might have discovered their
suspicions to be groundless, and therefore have said nothing of
them. But, if this were so, why had they recalled him in this
curious fashion, and why should Brooklyn go out of his way
to draw public attention to himself, and to make certain that
his doings would be fully canvassed in the newspapers? No,
the way in which he had been recalled showed that the police
were acting with a definite purpose. They were trying to get
Walter Brooklyn to make a statement which would clearly
incriminate him, and, if they really had evidence of his
presence in the house, they had certainly succeeded.</p>

<p>This explanation, natural and largely correct as it was,
was not quite a fair account of Superintendent Wilson’s
motives. His object had been not merely to get Walter
Brooklyn to incriminate himself, but also to give him a
chance of clearing himself if he could give a satisfactory
explanation of his presence in the house. The fact that the
man had repeated on oath an obvious lie seemed to him a good
enough reason for ordering an arrest. He nodded across the
court to the inspector.</p>

<p>But the coroner’s court had not yet quite done with Walter
Brooklyn. A juryman, quick to be influenced by the general
suspicion which was abroad, signified his desire to ask a
question. “Where did you go after leaving Liskeard House?”
he rapped out.</p>

<p>The coroner interposed. “Since that question has been
asked,” he said, “perhaps it would be well if you would give
us an account of your movements on Tuesday night.”</p>

<p>Walter Brooklyn seemed to think for a minute before
replying. “Well,” he said, “I strolled about for a bit round
Piccadilly Circus and Shaftesbury Avenue, and then I went
home to the club.”</p>

<p>“At what time did you reach your club?”</p>

<p>“I should guess it was shortly before midnight.”</p>

<p>“That is a considerable time after you left Liskeard House.”</p>

<p>“I am merely telling you what happened.”</p>

<p>“The club porter could probably confirm the time of your
return?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I imagine so.”</p>

<p>“And is there any one who would be able to substantiate
your account of what you did between 10.15 and midnight?
Were you strolling about all that time?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I suppose I was.”</p>

<p>“Were you alone?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Then there is no one who could confirm your story?”</p>

<p>“Probably not. But I did meet one or two people I knew.”</p>

<p>“None of them is here now?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“Do you desire that the inquest should be adjourned in
order that they may be called?”</p>

<p>“No. What on earth for? I don’t know whether I could
find them, anyway.”</p>

<p>“Then I think there is nothing further I need ask you.”</p>

<p>And with that, a good deal bewildered, Walter Brooklyn
was told to leave the witness box. He went back to his seat,
but a minute later got up and left the court.</p>

<p>Many pairs of eyes followed him as he walked slowly
towards the door, and the more experienced spectators nudged
one another as Inspector Blaikie rose quickly in his place and
went out after him. Joan, in her place in the court, saw her
stepfather leave; but she did not notice that the inspector had
followed. Ellery, who did notice, said nothing; for though
he realised what was about to happen he saw that there was
no means of preventing the arrest.</p>

<p>Meanwhile, the coroner was rapidly summing up the
evidence. Murder, he told the jury, was clearly established in
both cases; and they need have no hesitation as to their verdict
on that point. But who had committed the murders? If
they were satisfied that in either case the evidence established
the guilt of some definite person, it was their duty to bring in
a verdict against that person. In his opinion, however, the
evidence was wholly inadequate to form the basis of any
positive conclusion. It might be that John Prinsep had been
killed by George Brooklyn⁠—the finding of the handkerchief
and his known visit to the house were certainly suspicious
circumstances. It might be, on the other hand, that George
Brooklyn had been killed by John Prinsep⁠—the note in
Prinsep’s writing found in the temple, the cigar-holder, and his
known presence in the garden were all grounds for suspicion.
But both these sets of clues could not point to the truth, and
the jury had no means of determining on which the greater
reliance should be placed. Indeed, both sets of clues might
be misleading, and certainly neither was by itself enough to
form the basis of a verdict. The murders might both be the
work of some third person⁠—and one of them <em>must</em> be the
work of a third person⁠—but no evidence had been placed
before them which would justify a verdict against any
particular person. Suspicion, he would remind them, was a very
different thing from proof, and even with their suspicions they
must not be too free in face of the very slender evidence
before them.</p>

<p>After the coroner’s summing up, it was clear that only one
verdict was possible. After only a moment’s consultation, the
foreman announced that their verdict in both cases was
“Wilful Murder by some person or persons unknown.” The
coroner made a short speech thanking every one, and the court
adjourned. Joan was glad to breathe fresh air again after
her first experience of the suffocating atmosphere of a court.</p>

<p>By this time Walter Brooklyn was safe under lock and key.
As he reached the door of the court half an hour earlier, he
felt a touch on his sleeve, and, turning, saw Inspector Blaikie
immediately behind him.</p>

<p>“Well, what do you want now?” he said sullenly.</p>

<p>The inspector beckoned him into a corner, and there showed
him the warrant duly made out for his arrest. Walter
Brooklyn glanced at it. For a moment he drew himself up to his
full height and grasped his stick tightly as if he were
considering the prospects of a mad struggle for liberty. Then
he gave a short laugh. “I will come with you,” he said; and
then he added suddenly, with a fury the more impressive
because its utterance was checked⁠—“you damned little fool of
a policeman.”</p>

<p>“Come, come, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn,” said the inspector. “I’m only
doing my duty.” Walter Brooklyn made no reply, and the
inspector added: “Are you ready now?”</p>

<p>“Call a taxi,” said Walter. “I suppose you will not walk
me handcuffed through the streets,” he added bitterly.</p>

<p>“Certainly not,” said the inspector, and he hailed a passing
taxi, and signed to his prisoner to get in.</p>

<p>A small crowd had collected by this time, and stood gaping
on the pavement as the taxi drove away.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
