<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2><p epub:type="title">Joan Takes Up the Case</p></hgroup>

<p>Charis Lang had kept her composure during that
trying interview with the inspector, and had forced
herself to tell him everything she had to tell that could even
indirectly bear upon the murders. She had felt that this
was her duty; and in her the sense of duty was unusually
strong. But the telling had cost her a terrible effort, and
when the inspector went away, and there was no longer need
to hold herself up bravely, her fortitude gave way. She
had told things which, until then, she had not admitted even
to herself; and what hurt her most was that, in telling the
truth and nothing but the truth, she had been compelled to
let John Prinsep’s character appear in the worst light. Not,
she told herself, that it mattered to him any longer; but she
loved him, and it was horrible to her that she should have
to drag his memory in the mud. Moreover, was he not
suspected of having killed George Brooklyn, and would not her
account of him have made such an act seem more probable?
She did not believe that he had done so, and, as she thought
over her conversation with the inspector, she felt that she
had been false to his memory; and yet she knew that there
was nothing else she could have done.</p>

<p>But why had Walter Brooklyn been so dragged into the
case by the detective? Until Inspector Blaikie had come to
see her, she had been quite without a theory of the events
of Tuesday. She had been stunned by the fact of Prinsep’s
death, and she had hardly troubled to think who could have
killed him. Now it was clear that the police believed that
Walter Brooklyn had something to do with it. An odious
man, by all accounts, and one who had proved himself odious
beyond measure in his dealings with her. Yet not a man
she would readily have suspected of murder with violence.
Underhand crimes—dirty, little crimes—she said to herself,
would be more in keeping with what she knew of him. And
then, despite his treatment of her, she accused herself of
being uncharitable. After all, there was some dignity about
murder; and her feeling, biased no doubt by her personal
experience, was that Walter Brooklyn was not even fit to be
a murderer.</p>

<p>Charis felt that she could not go on to the stage that
afternoon as if nothing had happened. She had forced herself
to play her part—and had played it as well as ever—since the
tragedy; but for that afternoon at least she must be free, and
her understudy must take her place. Having been forced to
tell her story to the inspector, she felt all the more need to
tell it again to some one more sympathetic—to some real
friend capable of understanding what she had suffered and
of sharing in her sorrow. Speedily her mind was made up.
She must see Isabelle, Mrs. George Brooklyn. Isabelle, too,
was in trouble at least as hard as her own. Isabelle had lost
her George, as she had lost John Prinsep.</p>

<p>Then she remembered. Some people said that John had
killed George Brooklyn, and some said that George Brooklyn
had killed John Prinsep. She had heard that there was
evidence, though she did not know what it was. Could either of
these things be true, and, if there was even a chance that either
might be true, how could she go and talk about it to Isabelle?</p>

<p>She did not find an answer to her questions; but all the
same she made up her mind to go. She was capable of
conceiving the thought that the two men might have quarrelled,
and that the one might have killed the other; but she was not
capable of believing the thought which she could conceive.
She knew that they might quarrel—that they had done so often
enough; but they would not kill. And even if they had—she
barely formulated the thought—what did it matter now? She
and Isabelle were both desolate and in need of comfort.
She would go.</p>

<p>So Charis, having made—to her understudy’s secret delight—her
arrangements at the theatre, set off to find Isabelle—for
that was the name by which she still called Marian Brooklyn.
Isabelle, she knew, was still at the hotel—the Cunningham—and
she had not far to go. In a few minutes the two women
were in each other’s arms. It was not a question of who had
killed their lovers; they both needed comfort, and they sought
together such comfort as could be found.</p>

<p>By-and-by, Charis found herself telling the story of the
inspector’s visit. She had never before spoken openly to Mrs.
George about John Prinsep; but now she told the whole story,
only to find that most of it was known to Marian already.
Marian told her how Carter Woodman had come to see her,
and asked her to use her influence to break the entanglement
between Charis and John Prinsep, and how she had
indignantly refused and had threatened to go and tell John straight
out that he ought to marry her. Charis did not try to defend
Prinsep: she realised that there could be no defence for what
he had done; but she told Marian that she had loved him, and
that she believed he had loved her—in a way—and would
certainly have married her but for his fear of Sir Vernon’s
opposition. She told Marian that it was quite clear from the
inspector’s manner that he suspected Walter Brooklyn of one,
if not of both, murders, and at last she told her of Walter
Brooklyn’s visit to herself, and of the infamous threat he had
made.</p>

<p>To Charis’s surprise, Marian Brooklyn altogether refused to
consider the possibility of Walter’s guilt. She had seen him
outside Liskeard House as they left on the Tuesday evening,
and she agreed that he might possibly have gone there to carry
out his threat of telling Sir Vernon. But she was quite
convinced that he had had nothing to do with the murders, and she
was very doubtful whether he would really have carried out
his threat against Charis. “Walter Brooklyn,” she said, “is a
thoroughly bad lot. In money matters you couldn’t trust him
an inch. But I do not believe he would really have done a
thing like that—I mean, either murdered anybody, or really
told Sir Vernon about you. He might threaten, but I don’t
believe he’d do such a thing, when it came to the point.”</p>

<p>Then Marian Brooklyn realised what seemed to her the
most horrible thing about the situation. “Poor Joan,” she
said, “it will be simply terrible for her if Walter Brooklyn is
really suspected. She has trouble enough with what has
happened, already, and with Sir Vernon on her hands in such a
state that nearly everything has to be kept from him. If her
stepfather is going to be dragged into court, I don’t know what
she will do.”</p>

<p>All Charis could suggest was that it would be best that she
should know nothing about it until it could no longer be kept
from her; but to this Marian Brooklyn did not agree. “I
think, dear, she had better know at once. Joan is not easily
frightened; and I am sure she would wish to be told.”</p>

<p>And so it was finally settled. Marian Brooklyn said that
she would go to Liskeard House at once and try to see Joan.
At first she suggested that Charis should come with her; but
finally they agreed that she had better go alone. Charis, a
good deal more at ease after her talk with her friend, went
back to the theatre with every intention of appearing at the
evening performance.</p>

<p>Marian Brooklyn found Joan at home. Indeed, since
Tuesday she had not left the house, save for an occasional breath of
air in the garden. With the police continually making
inquiries, newspaper reporters laying constant siege to the house,
and Sir Vernon so ill that the fact of George Brooklyn’s death
had still to be kept from him, and George’s absence explained
by all manner of subterfuges, Joan and Mary Woodman had
been going through a terrible time, made the worse, in Joan’s
case at least, by the sense of helplessness in face of a great
calamity. Her duties in looking after Sir Vernon did not
prevent her from thinking: rather they were such as to make
thought turn to brooding. Her thoughts seemed to go round
and round in an endless and aimless circle; and, as the days
passed, the strain was telling on her far more than on Mary
Woodman, who was not blessed—or cursed—with the faculty
of imagination. Mary did her duty quietly and
sympathetically, and with little sign of inward disturbance. Joan did her
duty, too, but she was eating out her soul in the doing of it.
Her face, as she came into the room to greet Marian, was
haggard with lack of sleep. She had not quite lost that look of
composure and self-possession that was normally hers; but it
was easy to see that the strain on her had been severe.</p>

<p>Marian did not quite know how to begin what she had to
say; but Joan saved her from her embarrassment by
beginning at once to speak about Sir Vernon. He had been very
bad indeed; he was still very bad, but she thought he was
beginning to rally. It had been terribly difficult—having to
keep from him the news and prevent him from taking any part
in the investigation. He had asked more than once to see the
police; but the doctor said that absolute rest was
indispensable, and that any further shock or excitement would
almost certainly still be fatal to him. Joan told Marian that
she and Mary had their hands so full that they knew little or
nothing of what was going on, and had no idea what progress
the police were making towards the solution of the mystery.</p>

<p>This gave Marian the opening for which she had been
waiting. “It was about that, darling,” she said, “I came to
see you. I did not want the police to come asking you more
questions until you were prepared.”</p>

<p>Joan expressed her surprise. “Prepared,
Marian—prepared for what do you mean?”</p>

<p>“Well, dear, I thought I had better tell you. The police
think they have a clue.”</p>

<p>“A clue? Do you mean they know who did it?”</p>

<p>“No, dear. I don’t mean that they know; but there is
somebody whom they suspect. Of course, it is their business
to suspect people; but I thought I ought to tell you.”</p>

<p>“Of course, it is their business to find out who did it. I
am only glad it isn’t mine—and yet I can’t help wondering.
I keep thinking about it, even though I try hard to put it out
of my mind.”</p>

<p>“That is only natural, dear. It is the same with me. I
find myself wondering——”</p>

<p>Joan interrupted, “And the worst of it is that one’s thoughts
take one no further. Mine just go round and round, I haven’t
the ghost of an idea who it was.”</p>

<p>“What I came to tell you, Joan, was this. Of course, it
can’t be true; but the police suspect—your stepfather.”</p>

<p>Joan had been standing, leaning with one arm on the
mantelpiece; but at Marian’s words she went very white, and her
body swayed. She gripped the mantelpiece to steady herself,
and felt her way to a chair. For a moment she said nothing.
Then, so low as to be just audible, her answer came.
“Marian, tell me at once what makes you think that.”</p>

<p>“I don’t think it, my dear. But, unfortunately, the police do.
That man, Inspector Blaikie, has quite convinced himself of
it. I had better tell you exactly what I know.”</p>

<p>Then Marian told Joan all about the inspector’s visit to
Charis Lang. Joan listened in silence, barely moving. Her
colour came back slowly, and, as she realised that the police
had built up a real case against her stepfather, a look of
determination came into her face.</p>

<p>“I wonder if he knows,” she said. “I must go to him at
once.”</p>

<p>Marian said to herself that Joan was bearing it wonderfully
well. There was no fear that she would collapse under the
shock. Indeed, she could see that the news had really done
her good. During the days since the crime she had been
suffering above all because she felt helpless and useless.
The danger to her stepfather gave her a sense of work to do.
It roused her and brought into play the reserves of strength
in her character. Marian had so far held back the reason for
Walter Brooklyn’s visit to Charis Lang; but she felt that it
was only fair to Joan to tell her the whole truth, however bad
it might be. If she was to help Walter Brooklyn, she must
certainly know the worst that could be said against him.</p>

<p>There was no doubt at all in Joan’s mind. Badly as
Walter Brooklyn had used her, and though she had refused to
live any longer under his roof, she was quite certain that he
was incapable of murder, above all of the murders of the two
victims of Tuesday’s tragedy. Even when Marian told her
the purpose with which Walter Brooklyn had been to visit
Charis Lang, that in no way altered her view. “He would
never have told Sir Vernon,” she said. “It was only too like
him to threaten; but he would never have done it. I know
him, and I’m sure of that.”</p>

<p>Joan was keenly anxious to find out what evidence the
police could possibly have against her stepfather; but of
this Marian could tell her hardly anything. She could
only suggest that probably Carter Woodman would know
about it. Mrs. Woodman was still with her at the hotel;
but Carter had been away the previous night, and she had not
seen him. Joan said that she would try to see Carter at once,
and then, when she had found out all she could, she would
go to see Walter Brooklyn.</p>

<p>So far from being prostrated by the news, Joan was moved
by it to take action at once. She telephoned through to
Carter Woodman at his office, and asked him particularly to come
and see her at Liskeard House that afternoon. Woodman
tried to put her off; but when she said that, if he could not
come to her, she would go at once to him, he at last agreed to
come. Within an hour he was with her, and Joan plunged
at once into business by asking him to tell all he knew about
the police and the progress they had made.</p>

<p>Woodman seemed reluctant to talk; but, on being pressed,
he told her most of what had passed at his first talk with
the inspector, leaving out, however, anything which would
tend to connect Walter Brooklyn with the crime, and thereby
creating the impression that the police were totally at a loss.
But Joan was not to be put off so easily. “It’s no use,
Carter,” she said, “your trying to spare my feelings. I know that
the police suspect my stepfather, and I want to know on what
evidence they are trying to build up a case against him. Surely
you must know something about that.”</p>

<p>Faced with the direct question, Carter Woodman told her
most of what he knew. He said that the police had found out
that Walter Brooklyn had been in the house that night, and
that he had actually telephoned to his club from Prinsep’s
room at about half-past eleven. He told her that Walter
Brooklyn’s walking-stick had been found in Prinsep’s room,
and that Walter had almost thrown the inspector
downstairs when he went to question him about his movements.
What surprised him, he said, was that Walter Brooklyn had
not been arrested already.</p>

<p>At this Joan broke out indignantly, “You don’t mean that
you believe he did it?”</p>

<p>“My dear Joan, I only wish you had not asked me such a
question. But what am I to think? It is clear that he was
in the house, and somebody must have done it, after all.
I’m sorry for you; but I think you are under no illusions about
your stepfather’s character.”</p>

<p>“I tell you that he could never have done a thing like
that. I know he’s a bad man, in many ways. But he’s not
that sort. Surely you must understand that.”</p>

<p>But Carter Woodman did not seem to understand it.
Apologetically, but firmly, he made it quite clear to Joan that he
was disposed to believe in Walter Brooklyn’s guilt, or at least
that he saw nothing unlikely in the supposition that he might
have committed murder. Joan, who had intended to ask
Woodman to go to work for the purpose of clearing her
stepfather, soon saw that there was nothing to be gained by
making such a request. In his present mood, at least, Carter
Woodman would be far more likely to search for further
evidence of Walter Brooklyn’s guilt. Joan had found out
from him most of what she wanted; and, seeing that there was
nothing further to be gained by enlisting his help, she got rid
of him as soon as she decently could.</p>

<p>When Woodman had gone, Joan sat down to think the
matter over quietly. She was absolutely certain that her
stepfather was in no way guilty of the murders; but, after what
Woodman had said, it seemed only too clear that he must have
been on the spot when one of them at least was committed.
That meant that he knew the truth; but, for some reason or
other, he had evidently not told the police what he knew.
That, Joan felt, was not altogether surprising. Probably the
police had somehow got him into one of his rages; and she
knew that, if that were so, it was just like him to have
refused to say a word. It was more than ever necessary for
her to see him and get at the real truth of what he knew.
Only if she had that to go upon could she help him; and, as
Carter Woodman would do nothing, she felt that she must
devote all her energies to clearing him of the suspicion. He
would have to have a good lawyer of his own, of course; but
Joan must see him, and compel him to bestir himself about his
defence. For one thing, he was certain to be in low water; and
she must at once promise to pay all the expenses of the case.</p>

<p>She admitted to herself that, in the light of what Charis
Lang and Woodman had told her, the police seemed to have a
strong case against Walter Brooklyn. Her mind went back
to Woodman’s words, “After all, somebody must have done
it”; and she realised that, for the police “somebody” might
mean Walter Brooklyn quite as readily as any one else.
She, knowing him as no one besides knew him, might be sure
of his innocence; but that was no reason why others should
share her conviction. No, if Walter Brooklyn was to escape
from the coils in which he was enmeshed, it would be because
decisive evidence was forthcoming that he had not committed
the murders. And that decisive evidence would have to be
deliberately searched for by some one other than the police,
who, intent on proving the case against Walter Brooklyn,
would not be likely to seek for clues which would invalidate
their own case. And, if she did not undertake this task, who
would? She felt that the duty was hers.</p>

<p>But if, as she was sure, Walter Brooklyn had not committed
murder, then who had, and what had her stepfather been doing
in Liskeard House that night? It was true that, by Carter’s
account, he had denied his presence there; but it did not
surprise Joan at all that her stepfather should have lied to the
police. If he was determined not to tell what he knew, his
only possible course was to deny that he had been present.
She would have to point out to him that, as his presence in the
house had been definitely established, the only possible course
remaining was to tell the police everything that he knew.</p>

<p>But what could it be that he was holding back? If he had
been present when murder was done, he must be concealing
the name of the murderer. That puzzled Joan; for she did
not see whom Walter Brooklyn could possibly be intent on
shielding. Quixotism was as unlike him as deliberate murder.
Moreover, who could the murderer have been? She searched
her mind in vain for any hint of a clue. There was literally
no one whom she could suspect. The whole thing appeared to
her merely inexplicable.</p>

<p>She realised, however, that the best way—perhaps the only
way—of clearing her stepfather was to bring the real
murderer to light. But there might be two different murderers.
Joan was inclined to regard it as quite possible that Prinsep
might have killed George Brooklyn; but it was utterly
inconceivable that George should have killed anybody. Far more
clearly than her stepfather, he was not that kind of man.
So that the best line of inquiry seemed to be to search for the
murderer of John Prinsep. But, she remembered, it was in
this case that the police had their strongest evidence against
Walter Brooklyn. There was little or nothing, so far as
she knew, to connect him with the death of George; but he
had been in Prinsep’s room, and there his stick had been found.
Surely he must know who had killed John Prinsep. She
could do nothing until she had seen him; but seeing him
might well clear up the whole tragedy once and for all.</p>

<p>Joan was still lying back in her chair, with closed eyes,
trying to think the thing out, when Winter announced that Mr.
Ellery was in the lounge, and would like to see her if she
felt equal to it. She had not seen Ellery since that fatal
Tuesday evening, when he had left with the other guests,
announcing his intention of walking back to Chelsea.
Doubtless, he had felt that to come sooner would be an intrusion;
but she knew enough of his feelings to be sure that it had cost
him a struggle to keep away. She was glad—very glad—he
had come; for just what she wanted was some one to whom
she could talk freely, some one on whose help she could rely in
trying to clear her stepfather. Robert Ellery, she knew, would
be ready to believe as she believed, and to do everything in
his power to help her in her trouble. These thoughts flashed
through her mind as she went to the lounge where he was
waiting.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
