<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Charis Lang</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Inspector Blaikie, when he left the Byron Club, was quite convinced that Walter Brooklyn was the murderer. Not merely one of the murderers, but the murderer of both men. The evidence against Prinsep he was more than ever inclined to discount in face of the impression which Walter Brooklyn had made upon him. Not only the man’s manner, but even more his physique, had convinced the inspector of his guilt. Here at least was a man who combined great physical strength with an obviously ungovernable temper⁠—just the combination of qualities which seemed most clearly to fit the case. After all, he had never believed much in fingerprints. They showed, no doubt, that Prinsep had actually held in his hand the weapon with which the murder was committed; but did that prove that he had done the deed? He might conceivably have taken hold of the club for some quite different purpose. The prints were not conclusive evidence⁠—on that point he permitted himself to differ from his superior, who had seemed to think that they were. They needed explaining, certainly; but there were other possible explanations. Moreover, if Prinsep had been careless enough to leave his fingerprints all over the club, was it not curious that not a trace of them had been left on the dead man’s clothing, though he had obviously been dragged by the collar from the statue into the little antique temple so as to be out of the way. A starched collar was about the likeliest possible place for clear impressions of fingers. But there was not the trace of a fingermark on it. The man who dragged the body to the temple steps had certainly worn gloves.</p>
			<p>Then a very curious point struck the inspector. All the fingerprints had been partly obliterated, as if someone had handled the club subsequently. But, in the morning he had been careful that no one should do so, and he was fairly certain that no one had. Then another significant point occurred to him. No other fingerprints had been found on the club. Then, if someone else had handled it subsequently, that someone else had worn gloves. But, in the garden that morning, not one of those present had been wearing gloves. The obliterating marks had been made before the discovery, and therefore also presumably before the crime. The inspector almost felt that he could reconstruct the scene. John Prinsep had held the club; but later, Walter Brooklyn, wearing gloves, had handled it. As usual, the evidence of the fingerprints, true as far as it went, was misleading. Only the partial obliteration of the marks had given the key to the truth. The new explanation, moreover, fitted in exactly with his observation of the absence of fingerprints on George Brooklyn’s crumpled collar.</p>
			<p>It was true, of course, the inspector reflected, that all this was only hypothesis. He could not prove absolutely that the obliterations had been made by a pair of gloved hands holding the club with murderous purpose, and still less could he prove that the gloved hands were Walter Brooklyn’s. His conjecture was not evidence in a court of law; but it served to confirm him in his own opinion. He could now, with good hope, go in search of further evidence.</p>
			<p>What, then, ought his next step to be? His talk with Walter Brooklyn had opened up certain fresh lines of inquiry. He must see Woodman again, and find out what had been the business on which Brooklyn had twice visited him on the Tuesday. And he had better see this Miss Lang of the Piccadilly Theatre, in case she could throw any light on the case. And he must try to trace Walter Brooklyn’s stick. He felt sure that Brooklyn had told him a lie about this, and that he had really left it in Prinsep’s room in the evening. But it was his business to make every inquiry, and to test Brooklyn’s story by every possible means.</p>
			<p>By this time⁠—for it was now nine o’clock⁠—Woodman would certainly have left his office. The inspector felt that he had done a good day’s work, and could with a good conscience leave further activity for the morrow. He went home, and straight to bed, in his tiny bachelor flat in Judd Street.</p>
			<p>When Inspector Blaikie woke the following morning he at once began to turn the case over in his mind. It was now Thursday, and the inquests had been fixed for Friday. It would be necessary that day to decide on the procedure to be followed. Ought the police to produce the evidence which they had gathered, or would it be better to make the proceedings as purely formal as possible, and to reserve all disclosures for the trial which would surely follow? The Inspector’s instinct was against any premature showing of his hand; but he would have to discuss the matter with Superintendent Wilson, with whom the final decision would rest. That could stand over until he had seen Woodman and the unknown Miss Lang. He would arrange to see the superintendent in the afternoon.</p>
			<p>The inspector went out and breakfasted in one of those huge “Tyger” restaurants which cater for the servantless flat-dwellers of London. Then he went to Scotland Yard, arranged to see the superintendent after lunch, and phoned through to Woodman arranging an eleven o’clock appointment at his office. Next he got on the phone to the Piccadilly Theatre, and discovered that Miss Lang was expected there at about midday. He left a message stating that he would call to see her. She lived, as he knew, at Hammersmith, and was not on the telephone. He also rang through to the sergeant on duty at Liskeard House, who reported that there were no fresh developments.</p>
			<p>At eleven o’clock punctually, the inspector entered Carter Woodman’s outer office. The old clerk, seated there at his desk, looked up at him suspiciously from a heap of papers. Rather brusquely, the inspector announced that he had come to see Woodman by appointment. The man went to tell his master, and Carter Woodman promptly appeared at the door of the inner room to bid his visitor welcome. Coming towards the inspector, he gripped him firmly by the hand. “Well, my lad, how goes it?” he said. “Have you found the scoundrels? You must come in and tell me all about it.”</p>
			<p>The inspector felt himself almost carried bodily into the inner room, and seated breathless in a chair, while Carter Woodman took up a commanding position on the hearthrug. “Quite right to come to me,” he said. “You must treat me as if I were Sir Vernon⁠—as his man of business I regard myself as in charge of his affairs. Now let me know exactly what you have done so far, and I’ll see if I can help you. But, first, have you any fresh clue as to the identity of the murderers?”</p>
			<p>Inspector Blaikie reflected, as Woodman was speaking, that powerful physique seemed to run in the Brooklyn family. Woodman was only a distant relative; yet he had many of the physical characteristics which the inspector had noticed in Walter Brooklyn. But there the resemblance seemed to end. Woodman’s bluff and hearty manner, which seemed to have big reserves of strength and self-control behind it, was in marked contrast to Walter Brooklyn’s passionate and excitable temperament. Woodman belonged to a very definite type⁠—the successful city man who combined keen business acumen and a sharp eye for a bargain with a hail-fellow-well-met manner and an ability to make himself instantly at home in almost any society.</p>
			<p>The inspector, engrossed with his own thoughts, said nothing in immediate reply to Woodman’s question; and the latter, after a pause, repeated it, remarking cheerfully, “What, daydreaming, are we? Won’t do in a detective, you know. Not at all what we expect of you, eh?” And, after putting his hand for a moment on the inspector’s shoulder, he abandoned his place of vantage before the fireplace and sat down in his desk-chair facing his visitor.</p>
			<p>“I saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn yesterday⁠—not, I am afraid, a very pleasant interview. He seemed to resent very much my asking him any questions⁠—in fact he all but threw me downstairs,” the detective added with a laugh.</p>
			<p>“What took you to see him?” asked Woodman. “I suppose it was about our seeing him outside the house.”</p>
			<p>“It had come to my knowledge that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn was actually in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep’s room at Liskeard House at 11.30 on Tuesday night.”</p>
			<p>“Good Lord, man, you don’t say so. Are you sure? Why, who in the world told you that?”</p>
			<p>“Nobody actually saw him there; but he telephoned at that time to his club, said that he was speaking from Liskeard House, and asked if a registered parcel had arrived for him, as he wanted it sent round there at once.”</p>
			<p>“Dear me, inspector, this throws a new⁠—and a most distressing⁠—light on the case. Did you discover from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn what he was doing at Liskeard House?”</p>
			<p>“No, and it was exactly on that point that I came to see what you could tell me.”</p>
			<p>“My dear chap, I’m as surprised as you are to know that he was there at all.”</p>
			<p>“I understand from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn that he had seen you earlier in the day. It might help if I knew what was the business then.”</p>
			<p>“You probably know enough about Walter Brooklyn to guess that it was about money.”</p>
			<p>“I had guessed so; but I am glad to have it definite. Can you give me rather more particulars?”</p>
			<p>“I think I may, though, strictly speaking, the matter ought to be confidential. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn had been trying for some time to get Sir Vernon to pay his debts, as he had done on several previous occasions. This time Sir Vernon handed the matter over to John Prinsep, partly because he was away from town, and partly because he thought he could trust Prinsep to handle the matter more successfully than if he did it himself. Prinsep thereupon saw Walter Brooklyn, and also consulted me. On my advice, he refused to make any payment without a very clear understanding that this was to be the last application. Walter Brooklyn tried all means to get the money without conditions, and in particular refused to disclose in detail what his liabilities were. Prinsep would not give a penny unless his conditions were met. On Tuesday afternoon Walter Brooklyn came down by appointment to see me, and I tried to get him to accept the conditions. He refused, and declared his intention of seeing Prinsep again. I told him he must do what he liked about that. I believe he saw Prinsep. Anyhow, later in the afternoon he came back, and made another attempt to get me to urge that the conditions should be modified. I refused of course, and he left. I have not seen him since.”</p>
			<p>“So far as you know, he had made no appointment with Prinsep for the evening?”</p>
			<p>“I know nothing about that. He may have done. He did not tell me.”</p>
			<p>“When he came back to you the second time, did he tell you that he had lost his walking-stick, and ask if you had found it in the office after he left?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I believe he did. It was not here. I said he had probably left it in the taxi.”</p>
			<p>“And that is all you know about the matter?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, of course I know something about the extent of Walter Brooklyn’s liabilities. They are considerable.”</p>
			<p>“We can go into that if it becomes necessary. But can you tell me⁠—would it be likely that, if Walter Brooklyn arranged a meeting with Prinsep about money, George Brooklyn would also have been present? It seems they were both there that evening?”</p>
			<p>“I should not have expected so; but it is certainly not impossible. Prinsep might have called in George, as he was co-heir to Sir Vernon’s money, to help him make it quite plain that the money would only be paid if the conditions were met. Or, of course, it may have been an accident. George Brooklyn might have been with Prinsep when Walter called. Have you any reason to believe that it was so?”</p>
			<p>“Well, we know that Walter Brooklyn, although he denies it, was in Prinsep’s room at about 11.30. We know that George Brooklyn left the house at about that time, and he must have come back at some time later to the garden, if not to the house. It seems at least likely that they met either before or after 11.30.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that seems probable. But I am afraid I know no more than I have told you.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps you can help me a little more. I am getting interested in this Miss Lang, who seems to turn up at every point in the story. It now appears that Walter Brooklyn went to see her at the theatre on Tuesday afternoon. He saw her and Prinsep there separately.”</p>
			<p>“I know nothing about that. I told you he went off to see Prinsep; but I have no idea what he can have been doing with Miss Lang.”</p>
			<p>“Did Walter Brooklyn know Miss Lang?”</p>
			<p>“Quite probably. He had a large theatrical acquaintance. But I did not know he was friendly with her.”</p>
			<p>“But you said that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Brooklyn was to have seen Miss Lang on Tuesday evening.”</p>
			<p>The lawyer nodded.</p>
			<p>“And now,” the inspector continued, “we find Walter as well as George Brooklyn mixed up with her. May not she have had something to do with the evening meeting at Liskeard House?”</p>
			<p>“Really, inspector, that is a matter for you. I have never seen the young woman, and I know no more about her than I have already told you. You had better see her yourself.”</p>
			<p>“That is what I propose to do; but I thought you might be able to throw some light on Walter Brooklyn’s dealings with her.”</p>
			<p>“None at all, unfortunately. I wish I could; for there is nothing I want more than to get this horrible business cleared up.”</p>
			<p>The inspector saw that there was nothing more to be learned from Carter Woodman at that stage. He accordingly took his leave, and went in search of Charis Lang, who, he was beginning to feel, might well hold the clue to the whole mystery. His original idea had been to see her at her home; but he had decided that it would be better to talk to her at the theatre, where the event in which she was concerned had actually taken place. Accordingly, he took a taxi to the Piccadilly Theatre, and sent up his card to Miss Lang, who had just arrived, and been given his note and message.</p>
			<p>When he was shown into Charis Lang’s room, Inspector Blaikie had his first surprise. He had been expecting, without any good reason, to be confronted with a beauty of the picture post card type, some little bit of fluff from the musical comedy stage. But he saw at once that Charis Lang was not at all that kind of woman. She was a girl whom no one but an idiot⁠—and Inspector Blaikie was far from being an idiot⁠—would think of calling pretty. Beautiful, some people would call her, but less from any regularity of feature than from an effect of carriage and expression⁠—a dignity without aloofness, a self-possession that was neither hard nor unwomanly. The inspector did not think her beautiful⁠—she was not of the type he admired⁠—but he said to himself that here was obviously a woman of character. And he at once changed his mind about the right way of tackling Miss Lang. She was, he recognised, a person with whom it would pay to be quite frank.</p>
			<p>“I understand,” she began, “that you wish to ask me some questions about”⁠—she hesitated a moment⁠—“this terrible affair.” The inspector could see that she was deeply moved.</p>
			<p>“Yes, Miss Lang,” he replied, “I have come to ask you for certain information. We have, of course, every desire to trouble you as little as possible.”</p>
			<p>“Oh,” she interrupted, “I only wish I had more to tell you. By all means, ask me what you will.”</p>
			<p>“I am afraid some of my questions may seem to you rather impertinent.”</p>
			<p>“No, inspector. I understand it is your business to get at the truth. I shall answer, whatever you may ask.”</p>
			<p>“Then, first of all, will you tell me about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn. I understand that he came to see you last Tuesday here. Is that so?”</p>
			<p>“I confess I am surprised at the question. I thought it was about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Brooklyn and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep that you wished to question me. But I can answer at once. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn did come to see me.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn well?”</p>
			<p>“No, hardly at all. Indeed, until that day I had scarcely spoken to him. I had met him a few times in large gatherings at Liskeard House and elsewhere.”</p>
			<p>“Then he is not a friend of yours?”</p>
			<p>“By no means.” The answer was so decided as to startle the inspector.</p>
			<p>“Have you any objection,” he asked, “to telling me on what business <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn visited you on Tuesday?”</p>
			<p>“It is not a thing I like to speak about; but I am fully prepared to tell you. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn came to make to me a dishonourable suggestion that I should help him to extract money from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep.”</p>
			<p>“In what way?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep had refused to give <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn a certain sum of money which he wanted. He came to ask me to bring pressure to bear on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep to give it to him. He suggested that I had a hold over <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep⁠—I suppose I must tell you what made him think that too⁠—and that if I was to ask he would get the money.”</p>
			<p>“And on what ground did he ask you to do this?”</p>
			<p>“He threatened that if I did not he would tell Sir Vernon about me and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep. He made the most horrible insinuations.”</p>
			<p>“You were friendly with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep?”</p>
			<p>“Two years ago John Prinsep asked me to marry him, and I accepted him. Our engagement was kept secret at his request.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Lang, I am sorry if I give you pain; but I must ask you whether you were engaged to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep at the time of his death.”</p>
			<p>The answer came clearly, but in a voice totally devoid of expression. “I do not know,” said Charis Lang. “The engagement had at least not been formally broken off.”</p>
			<p>“And of course you rejected Walter Brooklyn’s proposal?”</p>
			<p>“I did.”</p>
			<p>“Did you tell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep about it?”</p>
			<p>“No. It was not a matter I could bring myself to mention to him.”</p>
			<p>“You understood that Walter Brooklyn intended to carry the story to Sir Vernon?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, and of course Sir Vernon would have been very angry. He has always wanted John to marry his ward, Miss Cowper.”</p>
			<p>“What had Walter Brooklyn to gain by telling Sir Vernon?”</p>
			<p>“I suppose he thought that Sir Vernon would soon make John give me up, and that between them they could fix up for John and Miss Cowper to marry. Or perhaps he relied on my telling John, and thought John would let him have the money to prevent him from going to Sir Vernon.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that seems the most probable explanation. And did you see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep after your meeting with Walter Brooklyn?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, for a few moments. He had seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn, too, and was very angry. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn had used the same threat to him as he used to me.”</p>
			<p>“And how had <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep taken it?”</p>
			<p>“He had refused to give <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn a penny, and said he would see Sir Vernon himself.”</p>
			<p>“In order to tell him of your engagement?”</p>
			<p>Again came the answer, painfully given, “I do not know.”</p>
			<p>“I am sorry, Miss Lang, but I have not quite done. Did you see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Brooklyn on Tuesday?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, he came here to see me after he had left Liskeard House in the evening.”</p>
			<p>“At what time was that?”</p>
			<p>“It was after ten o’clock⁠—probably about a quarter past. I am off the stage for a long time then.”</p>
			<p>“Was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Brooklyn a friend of yours?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, in a way. At least, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> George Brooklyn is a very dear friend. I used to understudy her when she was Isabelle Raven. She was <em>the</em> Isabelle Raven, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Then there was nothing unusual in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Brooklyn’s coming to see you here?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think he had ever been to my room before. I had often met him at his own house or at Liskeard House.”</p>
			<p>“Did he come for some special purpose?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, he came to see me about my engagement to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep.”</p>
			<p>“Do you mind telling me more exactly what you mean?”</p>
			<p>“Until recently, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep always behaved to me as if we were engaged. Lately, his manner to me had changed. When I spoke to him about it, he laughed it off, and I tried to go on treating him as I had done. But about a fortnight ago I had a letter from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter Woodman⁠—you know him, I expect⁠—saying he would like to discuss with me certain matters placed in his hands by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep. I wrote back saying that I could not conceive that there was anything in my relations with John that called for a lawyer’s interference. Then I took the letter to John, and we had a real quarrel about it. I asked him if I was to consider our engagement at an end; but he put me off, and before I could get him to answer we were interrupted. I did not see him again until Tuesday, and then only for a minute. I meant to try to clear matters up, and to tell him I could not go on like that; but he was called away, and I had no chance. Then in the evening George Brooklyn came to see me.”</p>
			<p>“Will you tell me what happened then?”</p>
			<p>“He asked me point-blank whether I had been engaged to John. I said that I certainly had been, but that I didn’t know whether I still was. I told him that I still loved John; but I asked him to let John know⁠—he had promised to see him when he left me⁠—that I considered our engagement definitely at an end, unless he desired to renew it.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Lang, my questions must have been very painful, and it has been very good of you to answer them so freely. I think there is only one thing more I need ask. At what time did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Brooklyn leave you?”</p>
			<p>“A few minutes after half-past ten. I went on the stage again almost immediately afterwards.”</p>
			<p>“And you did not see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Brooklyn again?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“You saw no more of either <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep or <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, as it happens, I caught sight, out of my window, of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prinsep walking in the garden behind the theatre. That must have been about a quarter past eleven.”</p>
			<p>“And that is all you saw. He was alone?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. I saw no one else.”</p>
			<p>“Then I have only to thank you again for the way in which you have told me what you know.” And with that the inspector took his leave, feeling that, as a result of his talk, he had scored another good point against Walter Brooklyn. Quite apart from the murders, the man really deserved hanging for his behaviour to Charis Lang⁠—at least that was how Inspector Blaikie felt about it. He must get enough evidence to convince his reluctant superior, and thereafter twelve good men and true, that Walter Brooklyn was the murderer. John Prinsep, perhaps, was not such a bad riddance: certainly he had been behaving like a cad. But then, Charis Lang was in love with him, and that was enough to cover a multitude of sins. For her sake at least the murderer must be brought to justice. Moreover, George Brooklyn seemed to have been a good sort. The inspector was inclined to dismiss the idea that he had had anything to do with the killing of Prinsep, even though his talk with Prinsep after leaving Charis Lang might have afforded full provocation, if, as seemed likely, Prinsep had refused to marry her. The inspector’s last thought was that it was still a tangled enough skein that he had to unravel. But some at least of the knots had been successfully untied.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
