<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h2><p epub:type="title">The Police Have Their Doubts</p></hgroup>

<p>While the representatives of the defence⁠—official and
unofficial⁠—were pursuing their separate lines of
investigation, the police had not been altogether idle. Inspector
Blaikie had not been long in finding out that Thomas had been
making inquiries among the servants at Liskeard House, or in
drawing the conclusion that the defence would make an
attempt to shift some part at least of the suspicion to other
shoulders with the object of creating enough doubt to make it
difficult for a jury to convict their client. He was not surprised
at this, and it did not at all alarm him; for, among other
things, he regarded it as sure proof that the lawyer held his
own case to be weak. The inspector was quite unable to take
seriously the idea that Winter was in any way implicated in
the murders; and Morgan’s complicity, owing to the position of
their bedrooms, was practically impossible without Winter’s.
Blaikie therefore treated Thomas’s moves as being merely the
necessary preparation for an attempt to throw dust into the
eyes of the jury, and not in the least an endeavour to find the
real murderer. There could be no doubt about it⁠—Thomas’s
tactics were, from the inspector’s standpoint, the final and
conclusive proof⁠—Walter Brooklyn had murdered Prinsep, and
either he or Prinsep had murdered George Brooklyn. They
had the right man under lock and key.</p>

<p>But it is one thing to be sure that you have the right man in
custody, and quite another to be sure of getting him convicted
by a jury. The inspector admitted that the case against
Walter Brooklyn was not conclusive. His complicity was
practically proved; but there was no direct evidence that he had
actually struck the blows. The evidence was circumstantial;
and, in these circumstances, the inspector did not disguise from
himself the fact that any attempt to shift the suspicion might
at least create enough doubt to make a conviction improbable.
Accordingly, while Joan and Ellery were doing their best to
prove Walter Brooklyn’s innocence, Inspector Blaikie was
searching, with equal vigour, for further proofs of his guilt.</p>

<p>But he found nothing that was of material importance, so
far as he could see. The sole addition to his case was the
evidence of a taxi-driver, who, from his accustomed post on the
rank outside the Piccadilly Theatre, had seen Walter Brooklyn
pass at somewhere about half-past eleven or so; but the man
could not be sure to a few minutes. This was all very well
in its way, the inspector thought; but as Walter Brooklyn’s
presence inside Liskeard House at about 11.30 was proved
already, it could not be of much importance to prove his presence
just outside at about the same time. There was, however, this
to be said for the new piece of evidence. Walter Brooklyn
denied the telephone message, and maintained that he had not
been at Liskeard House at all. Direct evidence that he had
been at the time in question within a minute’s walk of the
house was certainly better than nothing.</p>

<p>Nothing further had come to light when, on Saturday
morning, Inspector Blaikie went to Superintendent Wilson with his
daily report on the case, telling him first about the taxi-man’s
evidence. The superintendent seemed to attach some
importance to this. “Where you have to rely on circumstantial
evidence,” he said, “the accumulation of details is all-important.
Every little helps. Your taxi-driver may yet be an important
link in the chain.”</p>

<p>The inspector confided to his superior that the result of his
reflections on the case was to make him far more doubtful than
he had been of securing a conviction.</p>

<p>“Quite so,” said the superintendent. “I thought you
would realise that when you had thought it over.”</p>

<p>The inspector replied that he saw it now, and went on to
explain what he believed to be the strategy of the
defence⁠—throwing suspicion on the servants. “The trouble of it is,”
he said, “that although I’m absolutely sure in my own mind
that Winter had nothing whatever to do with the affair, there’s
no way of proving the thing one way or the other. So far
as the evidence goes, he might have done it. Of course,
there’s absolutely no shred of evidence that he did; but that
is not enough to prevent a clever counsel from arousing
suspicion in the mind of a jury.”</p>

<p>“Are you so sure,” said the superintendent, “that there is
no shred of evidence? I mean, of course, of what the other
side may be able to dress up to look like evidence. I should
say that fellow Thomas is clever enough to find something
that he can make serve as a cause for suspicion, if there is
anything at all that will serve. For example, this Prinsep
seems to have been a bit of a beast. Is there anything to
show whether Winter was on good or bad terms with him?
If they had quarrelled or anything of the sort, that is just the
kind of fact Thomas, or his counsel, would use to good effect.”</p>

<p>“You’re right there; but I’ve come across nothing that
would suggest a quarrel. Morgan⁠—that’s the valet chap⁠—made
no secret of disliking Prinsep very cordially; but
Winter seems to be just the good, faithful family servant.”</p>

<p>“I dare say there’s nothing to be found out in that way: but
you might make a note of it, and get a few inquiries made.
We want to know exactly how strong the defence is likely to
be. And, by the way, I suppose you still have no doubts in
your own mind that Walter Brooklyn is the murderer?” The
superintendent opened his eyes, and looked at the inspector as
he spoke.</p>

<p>“None at all⁠—at least, it seems to me practically certain.
Quite as certain as the case against most men who get hanged.
Do you mean that you are in doubt about it?”</p>

<p>The superintendent made no direct reply to this. “At
any rate,” he said, “the evidence is certainly not conclusive.
I suppose you have no idea whether the defence will try
to prove an alibi.”</p>

<p>“I don’t see how they can. According to his own story,
Brooklyn was just strolling about alone all the evening. He
can’t prove that, surely.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I don’t know about that. If it were true, he might
have been seen by a dozen people. And, even if it weren’t
true, Thomas might be able to produce witnesses who would
swear they had seen him. Thomas wouldn’t stick at that.
Any alibi he tries to produce will need very careful scrutiny.”</p>

<p>“But we know Brooklyn was in the house at 11.30.”</p>

<p>The superintendent smiled, and leant back in his chair.
“No,” he said, “that is just where you go wrong. We don’t
know it. It rests on the evidence about the telephone
message. But have you considered all the possibilities about that
message? The defence clearly will not admit that Walter
Brooklyn sent it. We believe he did; but is it not quite
possible for the defence to argue that somebody else sent that
message with the deliberate intention of misleading us? And
is it not also possible that Brooklyn sent it, but not from
Liskeard House?”</p>

<p>“But why should he say he was at Liskeard House if he
wasn’t?”</p>

<p>“I don’t say he wasn’t. But he may maintain that the man
who took the message down made a mistake. After all, such
mishaps are common enough. Or he may have been
meaning to go to Liskeard House before the messenger arrived.”</p>

<p>“I think that is ruled out any way. We have proved from
inquiries at the telephone exchange that Liskeard House did
ring up Brooklyn’s club at about the time stated. There was
some trouble about the connection, and the operator remembers
making it.”</p>

<p>“Well, take the other possibility. May not the defence
argue that some one else must have impersonated Brooklyn at
the telephone, with the deliberate object of throwing suspicion
upon him? The murderer, supposing him not to be Walter
Brooklyn, would obviously want to get some one else suspected
if he could. On that theory, all the circumstantial evidence
would be false clues left by the real murderer.”</p>

<p>“That doesn’t seem to me at all likely, if I may say so.
The evidence that was left on the spot where Prinsep was
killed was obviously meant to incriminate George Brooklyn.
That seems to show that, when the murder was done, the
murderer had no idea that George Brooklyn was dead already, if
indeed he was. A criminal would hardly lay two distinct and
actually inconsistent sets of clues, leading to quite different
suspects.”</p>

<p>“Not unless he was a quite exceptionally clever criminal,
I grant you. But tell me this. Why should a man, who
otherwise covered his traces so well, give himself away like
an utter fool by that telephone conversation?”</p>

<p>“Obviously, I should say, because the ’phone message was
sent before the murder, and the murder was not premeditated.
Having killed his man, Brooklyn took the only possible course
by denying the conversation.”</p>

<p>“Yes, that theory hangs together; but I’m not satisfied with
it. There seems to me to be every reason to believe that the
murders were most carefully thought out beforehand, and in
that case the sending of the telephone message needs a lot of
explanation. Then, again, we have still no indication at all
of how Walter Brooklyn, or for that matter George
Brooklyn, got into or out of the house.”</p>

<p>“On that point I have absolutely failed to get any light.
My first idea, of course, was duplicate keys, and the stable
yard. But the yard was quite definitely bolted as well as
locked by eleven o’clock. The wall could not be scaled
without a long ladder, which is out of the question. The front
door is quite impossible, unless three or four servants were
in the plot. I suppose they must have slipped in through the
theatre, although it beats me how they got in without being
seen.”</p>

<p>“May not Walter Brooklyn have come in through the stable
yard before it was closed, and been in the house some time
before the murders? He may have been going away when
your taxi-man saw him at about 11.30.”</p>

<p>“Even so, that doesn’t explain how he let himself out and
bolted the place after him from the inside. And, in any case,
George Brooklyn was still alive at 11.30, when he was seen
leaving the building by the front door. He had to get back,
and Prinsep, if he killed him, must have been alive too until
well after 11.30.”</p>

<p>“And you can add to that the difficulty that George
Brooklyn seems to have got back into the garden after 11.30, and
that, where one man could enter unseen, so could two.”</p>

<p>The inspector scratched his chin. “The whole thing is a
puzzle,” he said. “But there’s one thing I’m sure of. It’s a
much worse puzzle if you don’t assume that Walter
Brooklyn was the murderer.”</p>

<p>“Still, there’s nothing so dangerous as to simplify your
problem by assuming what you cannot conclusively prove to
be true. If I were a juryman, I certainly could not vote for
a conviction on the evidence we have at present.”</p>

<p>“But there’s no one else who could have done it.”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, there is. There’s all the population of London. I
grant you we have at present no reason for suspecting any
one else in particular. But that may be because we don’t
know enough.”</p>

<p>“Then what do you want me to do?”</p>

<p>“Hunt, for all you’re worth, for further evidence. Don’t
shut your eyes to the possibility that Walter Brooklyn may
not be the murderer. Hunt for evidence of any kind, as if
you were starting the case afresh.”</p>

<p>“And, meanwhile, Walter Brooklyn remains in custody?”</p>

<p>“Most certainly. There is presumptive evidence that he
is the guilty party. But it’s nothing like a certainty.
Remember that.”</p>

<p>The above conversation serves to show that the police, on
their side, were becoming seriously worried. They had hoped
that the strong presumptive evidence against Walter Brooklyn
would speedily have been reinforced by further discoveries;
but so far they had been disappointed. Inspector Blaikie at
least was still strongly of opinion that he was guilty; but a
strong opinion is not enough to convince a jury, and the
inspector did not like to see the acquittal of a man he had arrested,
especially as he had no other evidence pointing to some
different person as the guilty person. Superintendent Wilson at
least, while he could not blame the inspector for his conduct
of the investigation, was growing more and more dissatisfied
with the progress of the case. He had an uneasy and a
growing feeling, which he had at first been unwilling to admit
even to himself, that they were on the wrong tack.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
