<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h2><p epub:type="title">Robert Ellery’s Idea</p></hgroup>

<p>Ellery woke up in the morning with the dim
consciousness that he had a great idea. What had he been
thinking out when he dropped off to sleep the night before?
The murders, of course⁠—they were always in his thoughts.
But what was the shattering new idea that had come to him
as he lay awake? That was how his best ideas often came⁠—in
the night just before he went to sleep they came to him
half-formed, and the next morning, by the time he was fully awake,
they had somehow taken on form and certainty. With an
effort he stretched and roused himself, and, as he did so, the
idea came back to him. He felt certain that he knew who
was the murderer.</p>

<p>Who, he had asked himself the night before⁠—who, of all
the persons who figured on the list Joan and he had compiled,
was most likely to have done the thing? He felt certain that
it was not the work of a stranger: the whole of the
circumstances seemed to point to some one familiar with the house
and its ways. Yet, on the evidence, it seemed clear enough that
no one among those they had put upon their list could be
guilty. But their list included everybody. Very well⁠—this
had been his first inspiration⁠—there must be something wrong
with the evidence. It must point away from the guilty, as it
had pointed towards the innocent. The murderer who had
laid that clever trail to incriminate Walter Brooklyn would
obviously have taken the precaution to lay a trail pointing away
from himself. Indeed, whoever had the apparently clearest alibi
was on this showing the most likely to be guilty. It
would be safest, in the circumstances, to ignore for the
moment all the evidence which seemed to prove innocence, and
simply consider, in the light of the remaining conditions, who
was most likely to have been the murderer.</p>

<p>This narrowed the field considerably. The women, except
as possible accessories, could be ruled out of account in any
case; for no woman could have struck the blows by which the
two cousins had met their deaths. That left⁠—whom?
Walter Brooklyn was out of it; for his alibi had been not merely
accepted, but tested beyond possible doubt. Ellery could
hardly suspect himself, though he admitted that any one else,
following out his line of thought, might still suspect him.
His alibi was not conclusive: it depended on the word of one
man. But he could rule himself out: he could say positively
that he had not done the thing. Then who remained? Only
Harry Lucas, Carter Woodman, and the two servants, Winter
and Morgan. Among these, if he was right, the real murderer
must be found.</p>

<p>It was ludicrous, Ellery felt, to suspect his guardian.
Harry Lucas had no possible motive, and he was the very
last man for such a deed. He was ruled out of consideration
as soon as the thought was conceived. About Winter and
Morgan Ellery could not feel the same full certainty; but he
was very strongly of opinion that the murders were not the
work of a servant, and that neither of these men had the
qualities which the deed seemed to demand.</p>

<p>Then there was left only⁠—Carter Woodman. It was on
that thought that Ellery had fallen asleep, and that was the
idea that now came back to him with added certainty. Carter
Woodman was the murderer.</p>

<p>But was not the whole idea preposterous? Woodman not
merely had an alibi which had satisfied the police; he was a
relative, an old personal friend, the tried and trusted business
adviser of the Brooklyns. His wife was one of Joan’s dearest
friends, and he himself had been constantly about with the
men of whose murder Ellery was now suspecting him. The
idea seemed preposterous enough, when it was put in that way;
but, though Ellery presented these difficulties to his mind in
all their strength, they did not at all change his attitude.
No one else was the murderer: therefore Carter Woodman
was.</p>

<p>There entered, certainly, into Ellery’s conviction his own
strong dislike of Woodman. The suggestion of Woodman’s
guilt, once made, was plausible to him, because he had not
at all the feeling that the deed was incongruous. It would
have been utterly incongruous with what he knew of any
other possible suspect, even Walter Brooklyn; but the cap
seemed to fit Carter Woodman. Ellery said to himself that
Woodman was just the sort of chap who would commit
murder, if he had a strong enough motive.</p>

<p>Yes; but where was the motive in this case? What did
Woodman stand to gain? Knowing the terms of the will,
Ellery was aware that he gained nothing directly; for Sir
Vernon’s fortune would now pass mainly to Walter Brooklyn,
and the rest to Joan and to Marian Brooklyn. Of course,
Woodman might hope to get Sir Vernon to make a new will
in his favour, and, in any case, he probably stood now a fine
chance of becoming the managing director of the Brooklyn
Corporation. But a man would hardly commit two desperate
murders merely on such chances. The more Ellery considered
the matter, the surer he felt that there must be something else
behind⁠—something of which he was unaware, that would
make the whole case plain.</p>

<p>He must see Joan, and tell her what he suspected. She
might well know some fact, of which he was ignorant, that
would throw a clear light on the motive behind the crimes.
But would she ever believe that Woodman had done it?
Ellery realized that what to him seemed like certainty would
seem to others only a guess, and that he had not merely no
proof but actually no evidence to support his assumptions.
What evidence there was told the other way. Still, this did
not shake his assurance. He must make Joan see the case as
he had come to see it. Then they could seek together for
the proof.</p>

<p>As soon as Ellery had breakfasted, he set off for Liskeard
House to find Joan. They must get to work at once.</p>

<p>Joan, too, had spent a good part of the night thinking; but
her thoughts had brought her no nearer to a solution of
the mystery surrounding the murders. There was literally
not one, of all those who seemed to be concerned, who could,
in her judgment, have been the murderer. She was reduced
to the supposition that it must be some outsider⁠—some one
whom they had not even dreamed so far of connecting with
the crimes.</p>

<p>But Joan’s thoughts, unlike Ellery’s, persistently wandered
from the problem which she had set herself to solve. She
kept thinking of the future⁠—of the thing that was dearest to
the heart of the old man lying at death’s door. It was not
the money: it was the direction of the great dramatic
enterprise which he alone had built up. He had set his heart, she
knew, on passing on, not merely his fortune, but the headship
of the Brooklyn Corporation to one of his own blood, one who
could carry on the work he had set himself to do. Whom
would he now put in the place which Prinsep had lately
occupied? He might, indeed, die without the strength to make
a change; but Joan did not believe that he would. It seemed
to her inconceivable that he would leave matters so that the
bulk of his fortune, and with it the control of the Brooklyn
Corporation, would pass to her stepfather, who had manifestly
neither the will nor the special capacity to carry on the work.
She was convinced that Sir Vernon would change his will; and
she could see but one man whom he was now likely to make
heir to his wealth and position. Carter Woodman had the
talent and the knowledge to run the Corporation as a business,
if not as an artistic success. Would Sir Vernon put
Woodman in Prinsep’s place? Joan hated the very idea; for she
believed in the Brooklyn Corporation as an artistic venture,
and she had always somehow both disliked and distrusted
Carter Woodman. She would have found it difficult to give
a definite reason for her dislike, and she admitted that she
was perhaps unfair; but there it was. She hoped Carter
would not get the job, and she was sure that, however
successful he might be commercially, his accession to power would
put an end to all hope of artistic success. Still, she told
herself, it was no business of hers, and she would certainly
not try to influence Sir Vernon in any way. She supposed
he would make Woodman his heir; for there was no one else.</p>

<p>Against her will, the thought of Ellery came into her mind.
He would be, would he not?⁠—she seemed to be arguing with
a non-existent adversary⁠—just the man to carry on Sir
Vernon’s great artistic enterprises. Joan found herself building
up quite a romance on the basis of Robert Ellery’s succession
to control of the great Brooklyn enterprise. How well he
would do it! And then she reminded herself sharply that
she had no right to entertain such ideas, and that, in any case,
she certainly could not say a word on Bob’s behalf to Sir
Vernon. No, Carter Woodman would get the job. Joan
sighed as she resigned herself to the inevitable. But despite
her good resolutions, she was still thinking what an excellent
successor to Sir Vernon Robert Ellery would make, when she
was told that he was waiting to see her. She brushed the
thought she had been entertaining out of her mind, and,
dressing hastily⁠—for she had breakfasted in bed⁠—went down to
see him.</p>

<p>“Well, my dear, what news?” he asked.</p>

<p>“My dear Bob, I’ve had a beastly night, and I feel utterly
washed out. And my thoughts keep on going round and
round in a circle.”</p>

<p>“Poor darling,” said Ellery. “You <em>are</em> having a time.”</p>

<p>“And yet, Bob, it’s odd how little it all matters now I
have you.”</p>

<p>“I must give you a kiss for saying that, my dear. And I
must try to live up to it.”</p>

<p>“Dear boy,” said Joan, and then for a few minutes they
managed to get along without the need for words. Joan was
the first to rouse herself. “My dear Bob,” she said, “this is
a fine way of wasting time. I thought our job was to find out
who did it.”</p>

<p>“My dear child, I’ve been thinking all the time. It’s
wonderful how putting my head on your shoulder clears my
brain. Now I’m ready to behave like a real scientific
detective.”</p>

<p>“I think you’ll do it better if you sit a little farther off.
Now, my lad, what do you think about it?”</p>

<p>“I think just this, Joan. I think I know now who did it.”</p>

<p>Joan gave a gasp. “You know who did it!” she repeated.</p>

<p>“Well, I don’t know; but I think I have a very good idea.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean you’ve got some evidence at last. Who
was it, Bob? Tell me.”</p>

<p>“No, I haven’t any fresh evidence yet. I’ve just been
thinking. But I believe it was”⁠—Ellery paused⁠—“Carter
Woodman.”</p>

<p>Joan gave a half-cry of surprise. “Bob, Bob, you can’t
mean that. Whatever makes you say such a thing? My
dear boy, it’s quite absurd.”</p>

<p>“Why is it absurd, Joan?”</p>

<p>“Well, Carter’s a member of the family, and one of our
oldest friends, and⁠—but what’s the use of discussing it?
Why, he was here yesterday.”</p>

<p>“He may be here to-day, dear; but I don’t see what that has
to do with it.”</p>

<p>“But Carter’s been helping the police all through.
He’s⁠—”</p>

<p>“Isn’t that just what he would do if he were guilty?”</p>

<p>“My dear Bob, this is absurd. We know that Carter was
in the Cunningham Hotel all the evening. He couldn’t have
done it. Really⁠—”</p>

<p>“Do you think that the man who was clever enough to
fasten all that suspicion on your stepfather wouldn’t be clever
enough to provide himself with a passable alibi?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes. But all this doesn’t tell me why you suspect
Carter. Put it out of your mind, Bob. I know you don’t
like him, but that doesn’t mean that he has committed
murder.”</p>

<p>“I’ve said to myself already everything that you are saying
now. But I still believe that he did it.”</p>

<p>“Why, Bob? Have you any reason⁠—any proof at all, I
mean?”</p>

<p>“No, I’ve no proof; but I’ve an idea. It’s a question of
elimination. If nobody else did it, then he did.”</p>

<p>“But, my dear boy, what possible motive could he have had?
People don’t commit murders just for fun. Do be
reasonable. Carter was on quite good terms with both George and
John, and he had no reason for killing either of them.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean that, Joan?” said Ellery, with a sense of
disappointment. “I hoped you would be able to explain to
me what motive he could have had. Come now, doesn’t he
really stand to gain something⁠—I mean, don’t you think Sir
Vernon may make him his heir, or something of that sort?”</p>

<p>Joan paused. “Yes, Bob,” she said, with a sigh. “There
I think you’re right. Sir Vernon will very likely put Carter
in John’s place, I should imagine. But⁠—”</p>

<p>“Well, isn’t that a motive?”</p>

<p>“No, my dear, it isn’t. After all, we don’t know that he
will, and I’m quite sure people don’t commit carefully planned
murders just on a chance like that. Really, Bob, it’s
ridiculous.”</p>

<p>Ellery said nothing, but got up and strode across the room.
Then he turned and faced Joan. “Look here,” he said,
“supposing we hadn’t cleared old Walter, and he had been
put out of the way as well as Prinsep and George. Who’d
have been the heir then⁠—the next of kin, I mean?”</p>

<p>“Oh, Carter, I suppose. But you don’t suggest⁠—”</p>

<p>“My dear child, we’ve been a pair of fools. By George,
I wasn’t sure; but I’m sure now. What you’ve just said
makes it clear as clear.”</p>

<p>“Makes what clear?”</p>

<p>“Why, the motive. Of course, I ought to have seen it
before.”</p>

<p>“Ought to have seen it before? Ought to have seen what?”</p>

<p>“Why, whoever murdered John and George did his best to
throw the suspicion on your stepfather, didn’t he?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I suppose he did.”</p>

<p>“And if your stepfather had been convicted, Woodman
could have stepped into Sir Vernon’s shoes without a word said
as the next heir.”</p>

<p>“When Sir Vernon died⁠—yes. Probably, he could.”</p>

<p>“And wasn’t all this the surest way of hastening his end?
But that is not my point. As long as Walter Brooklyn was
likely to be convicted, the man I suspect stood to inherit Sir
Vernon’s money, and to step at once into Prinsep’s shoes.
He had murdered two of the people who stood in his way,
and he did his best to murder the third judicially by faking
up evidence against him. If Walter Brooklyn was convicted,
he was quite safe to get both the money and the control of the
theatres. That’s what he was after when he tried to get your
stepfather convicted of murder. Doesn’t that theory fit the
facts?”</p>

<p>“I suppose it does, Bob. But it would be a simply horrible
thing to have to believe, and it doesn’t convince me in the least.
I don’t like Carter; but we’ve treated him as almost one of the
family all these years. Could he possibly have done such a
thing?”</p>

<p>“I don’t like him either⁠—in fact, I dislike him very
strongly⁠—and I believe he could⁠—and did. But it won’t be easy to
prove it.”</p>

<p>“But, Bob, it can’t be true. Carter was with the others at
the Cunningham all the time on the night when John and
George were killed.”</p>

<p>“I know he said he was; but was he? A thing like that
needs to be proved. Why, he’s the only man who had any
reason for killing these three people, and, unless he can prove
conclusively that he didn’t kill two of them, and do his best to
get the law to kill the third, I shall go on believing that he did.
At any rate, I mean to look into it.”</p>

<p>“But you can’t possibly bring a charge of that sort without
proof.”</p>

<p>“You and I are going to find the proof, and there are two
things you can do to help. First, you must find out⁠—from
Marian will probably be best⁠—where Woodman really was on
Tuesday night, I mean whether he positively was with them in
the hotel all the evening. I don’t believe he was.”</p>

<p>“My dear boy, it would be simply horrible to have to go and
ask Marian things like that, when I can’t possibly tell her why
we want to know them. To think that she is actually living
with the Woodmans, without an idea that any one is suspecting
Carter of having murdered her husband.”</p>

<p>“No, you mustn’t tell her a word. But you can easily find
out what I want without letting her see what I suspect.”</p>

<p>“I suppose I must try to find out, just to prove that you’re
all wrong. But I don’t suspect Carter. It’s just too horrible
to think.”</p>

<p>“My dear, whether we like it or not, we have to find the man
who did this⁠—more than ever now that your stepfather is
cleared. A man who was capable of these things is capable of
anything, and I can’t bear the thought that you may be meeting
him and regarding him as a friend.”</p>

<p>“All right, Bob. I agree that we have to get to the bottom
of this. I’ll do my best. But I’m still sure you’re wrong.”</p>

<p>“That’s right, Joan, I only hope I am. But, while you’re
seeing Marian, I will try to find out a few things about friend
Woodman on my own.”</p>

<p>At this moment Marian Brooklyn was shown in. She came
across most mornings, and spent a part of the day at Liskeard
House, taking her share in looking after Sir Vernon. It was a
relief to her to have something to do. It stopped her from just
thinking day and night of what she had lost. Ellery had not
seen her since the tragedy, and he felt shy and awkward now in
the presence of her grief. At the end of a few minutes he took
his leave and left Joan to do what she had promised.</p>

<p>It was not easy to come to the point. How could she,
without rousing suspicions, ask Marian about Carter Woodman’s
movements on the night of the murders? But, very soon,
Marian gave her just the chance she needed, by saying that she
and Helen had been alone together all the previous evening.</p>

<p>“Where was Carter?” she asked.</p>

<p>“He had to go out and see some one on business. He did
not get back till we were just going to bed.”</p>

<p>“Sitting up late as usual, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“It was about twelve o’clock⁠—certainly not later. And you
know I can’t sleep if I go to bed early.”</p>

<p>“I didn’t know Carter did business in the evenings. He
always used to boast of keeping his evenings clear for enjoying
himself.”</p>

<p>“Yes, and he had promised Helen to be in. But he said it
was a very particular engagement. At some Club or other, I
believe. He was seeing Sir John Bunnery about some legal
business. When he came in he was dead tired, and went
straight to bed.”</p>

<p>“Marian, do you like Carter?” Joan asked suddenly. “It
seems funny I never asked you that before. I hate him.”</p>

<p>“My dear, you mustn’t say that. Of course I like him. I
don’t mean I care for Carter like some other people; but of
course I like him. Helen is a darling.”</p>

<p>“That means you don’t like him at all⁠—only you’re too nice
to say so.”</p>

<p>“I do like him, Joan. At least, I mean I don’t dislike him.”</p>

<p>“He seems to leave Helen alone a great deal.”</p>

<p>“Far too much, and he’s often out until all hours.”</p>

<p>“He even went out again after the dinner here last Tuesday,
didn’t he?”</p>

<p>“No, he didn’t that night. He went away to his room and
wrote letters. But he didn’t go out again. I stayed with
Helen till he came up to bed⁠—rather before twelve. But don’t
talk about that horrible night.”</p>

<p>“I’m sorry, dear. I won’t again.”</p>

<p>And then they talked of other things, until Marian went in
to sit a while with Sir Vernon. The doctor, who had been with
him, saw Joan on his way out. Sir Vernon, he reported, was
not yet out of immediate danger; but he was rallying
wonderfully from the shock which he had sustained.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
