<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2><p epub:type="title">A Pause for Reflection</p></hgroup>

<p>When Inspector Blaikie got to his own room, he sat
down with a sheet of paper in front of him, and on
it made out, from his notes, a list of all the persons whom
he knew to have been in the house the previous night. It was
a long list, and he made it out more to set his subconscious
mind free to work than with any idea that it would throw a
direct light on the problem. Having made his list, he began
to write down, after each name, exactly what was known
about its owner’s doings and movements on the night before.
He left out nothing, however unimportant it might seem; for
he had fully mastered the first principle of scientific
detection—that detail generally gives the clue to a crime, and that
therefore every detail matters.</p>

<p>He began with those who seemed least likely to have had
any hand in the business. First there were the four
maid-servants. They had gone to bed before eleven. They slept
two in a room, and there seemed no reason to doubt that, as
they said, they had all slept soundly. He did not dismiss
them from his mind, but he had nothing against them so far.</p>

<p>Then there was the lady’s maid, Agnes Dutch. She had
slept alone on the first floor, in a little room next to that of
Joan Cowper. She had felt tired, she said, and had gone to
bed at 10.30, after making sure that Miss Joan would not
want her again. She seemed a nice, quiet girl, and, although
she seemed very upset in the morning when the inspector saw
her, that was no more than was to be expected. There was
nothing against her either. Besides, Mary Woodman had
not gone to bed until after twelve, and she said that she was
certain the girl was in her room until then. She had been
sitting in the big landing-lounge reading, and both Joan’s
and the maid’s doors opened on to the lounge.</p>

<p>What of Mary Woodman herself? She had been with
Joan until about eleven, and had then sat for an hour
reading. No one had seen her during that hour, or heard her
go to bed afterwards. But Mary notoriously got on with
everybody and had not an enemy in the world. Every one
had told the inspector, without need of his asking the
question, that she was the very last person to have anything to do
with a murder. Besides, the whole thing was clearly a man’s
job. The inspector filed Mary Woodman in his mind for
future reference; but he felt quite sure that she knew nothing
about the crimes.</p>

<p>Then, to finish the women, there was Joan Cowper. She
had discovered George Brooklyn’s body in the garden, and
her manner after the discovery seemed to be sign enough that
it had come to her as a horrifying surprise. Certainly, she
had known nothing about George Brooklyn’s death; but she
might, for all that, be in a position to throw some further
light upon the crimes. He had asked her in the garden how
she had spent the previous evening; and she had answered
without hesitation. After seeing Sir Vernon to his room
shortly after ten, she had sat with Mary Woodman in the
lounge until eleven o’clock, and had then gone to bed. Her
maid had come to her rather before half-past ten and she had
told her she would be needed no more that night. Mary
Woodman, who had sat on in the lounge, confirmed this, and
stated that Joan had not left her room before midnight.
Certainly there seemed to be nothing to connect Joan with the
crimes. She was a fine young lady, the inspector reflected.
She had borne up wonderfully.</p>

<p>Next there were the men, and it was among them that the
criminal, if, as Blaikie suspected, he was one of the intimate
circle of Liskeard House, would probably be found. Sir
Vernon Brooklyn was clearly out of it. He was a feeble old
man whose hand could not possibly have struck those savage
blows. He was reported to be very fond of both his nephews;
and he had undoubtedly gone to bed at a quarter past ten.
So much for him. He might know things or suspect, but he
could have had no hand in the murders. At present, the
inspector had been told, he was prostrated by the news of
Prinsep’s death, and his doctor had forbidden any mention of
the matter in his presence. He did not even know yet that
George Brooklyn was dead.</p>

<p>The only other men who had slept in the house were the
two servants—Winter and Morgan. Morgan seemed to be
cleared of suspicion, at least if Winter had told the truth.
But might not Winter himself have had a hand in the affair?
The superintendent had dropped a plausible hint, and there
might be something in it. Inspector Blaikie wrote it down
as possible, but unlikely. Two other menservants, who had
waited at dinner, did not sleep in the house, and had left
soon after half-past eleven. They had been busy clearing
up until the very moment of their departure, and it seemed
plain that they had enjoyed neither time nor opportunity for
any criminal proceeding. Besides, they were strangers,
imported for the evening from the restaurant attached to the
theatre. As robbery had evidently not been a motive in either
murder, there was the less reason to think seriously about
them. They could have had no motive.</p>

<p>Next, the inspector turned to a consideration of the guests
who had been at the dinner. These were, first, George
Brooklyn and his wife. About George he had already noted
down all that he knew. What of Mrs. George? Inquiries
which the sergeant had made established that she had gone
straight back to her hotel—the Cunningham—soon after ten
o’clock. George had left her in the care of the Woodmans,
parting from them at the door of the theatre on plea of an
appointment. Mrs. George—or, as she was better known both
to the inspector and to all London, Isabelle Raven, the great
tragedy actress—had then sat talking with Mrs. Woodman in
the sitting-room which they shared at the hotel until “after
eleven,” when she had gone to bed, expecting that her husband
might come in at any moment. She had gone to sleep and had
only discovered his absence when she woke in the morning.
She had been worried, and after a hasty breakfast she had
hurried across to Liskeard House with Helen Woodman to
make inquiries. There she had been met with the fatal news.
She was now lying ill in her room at the Cunningham Hotel,
with Mrs. Woodman in faithful attendance upon her.</p>

<p>This recital clearly brought up the question of the
Woodmans, man and wife. When they returned to the hotel with
Mrs. George, Carter Woodman had gone to one of the hotel
waiting-rooms to write letters, leaving the two women
together. He said that he had remained at work till 11.45
or so, when he had gone down to the hall and asked the night
porter to see some important letters off by the first post in the
morning. This was corroborated by the night porter, who
had so informed the sergeant. Carter Woodman had then
gone straight to bed—a statement fully confirmed by his
wife. This seemed fairly well to dispose of any connection
of either the Woodmans or Mrs. George with the tragedy.</p>

<p>Harry Lucas? Sir Vernon’s old friend had left in his car
for Hampstead at ten minutes past ten after a few farewell
words with Sir Vernon. He had reached home soon after
10.30, and had gone straight to bed. This had been already
confirmed by police inquiries at Hampstead during the
morning.</p>

<p>Robert Ellery? He had left the house soon after ten,
saying that he intended to walk back to his room at Chelsea.
The inspector had not yet followed his trail; but he now
made up his mind to do so, though he had not much faith in
the result. Still, here was at least a loose end that needed
tying.</p>

<p>When he had made his list and tabulated his information,
Inspector Blaikie did not feel that he had greatly advanced
in his quest. Not one of the people on the list seemed in the
least likely either to have committed the murders, or to have
been even an accessory to them. He began to feel that he had
not yet got at all on the track of the real criminal, or at least
of the second one, if one of the two men had really killed the
other. Was it some one quite outside the circle he had been
studying, and, if so, how had that outsider got access to the
house? He might have slipped in without being noticed, but
it did not seem very likely, and it was far more difficult to see
how he had slipped out. But, after all, George Brooklyn had
got back somehow after 11.30, and, where he had come, so
might another. Perhaps some one had slipped in and out by
way of the theatre.</p>

<p>So the inspector made up his mind to go over the whole
scene again, and, above all, to find out more about the
persons with whom he had to deal—their histories and still more
their present ways of life: their loves and, above all, their
animosities, if they had any. There, he felt, the clue to the
mystery was most likely to be found.</p>

<p>Accordingly, on the following morning—the second after
the tragedy—Inspector Blaikie presented himself early at the
office of Carter Woodman and sent up his card. Sir Vernon
was still far too ill to be consulted, and the next thing seemed
to be a visit to his lawyer, who, being both confidential
adviser and a close relative, would be certain to know most of
what there was to be known about the circumstances
surrounding the dead men. Woodman had offered all possible
assistance, and had himself suggested a call at his office.</p>

<p>The inspector presented his card to an elderly clerk who was
presiding in the outer office, and was at once shown in to the
principal. Again he was struck, as he had been on the
morning before, with the lawyer’s overflowing vitality. At rather
over forty-six, Woodman still looked very much the athlete he
had been in his younger days, when he had accumulated three
Blues at Oxford, and represented England at Rugby football
on more than one occasion. He had given up “childish
things,” he used to say; but the abundant vigour of the man
remained, and stood out strongly against the rather dingy
background which successful solicitors seem to regard as an
indispensable mark of respectability. Carter Woodman, the
inspector knew, had a big practice, and one of good standing.
He did all the legal work of the Brooklyn Corporation, and he
was perhaps the best known expert on theatrical law in the
country.</p>

<p>Woodman greeted the inspector cordially, and shook his
hand with a force that made it tingle for some minutes
afterwards.</p>

<p>“Well, inspector,” he said, “what progress? Have you got
your eye on the scoundrels yet?”</p>

<p>The inspector shook his head. “We are still only at the
beginning of the case, I am afraid. I have come here to take
advantage of your offer to give me all the help you can.”</p>

<p>“Of course I will. It is indispensable that the terrible
business should be thoroughly cleared up. For one thing, I am
very much afraid for Sir Vernon; and there certainly would
be more chance of his getting over it if we knew exactly what
the truth is. Uncertainty is a killing business. He has not
been told yet about Mr. George Brooklyn’s death.”</p>

<p>“You will understand that, as it is impossible for me to see
Sir Vernon, I shall have to ask you to tell me all you can
about any of the family affairs that may have a bearing on the
tragedy. As matters stand it is most important that I should
know as much as possible about the circumstances of the two
dead men. To establish the possible motives for both crimes
may be of the greatest value. There is so little to go upon
in the facts themselves that I have to look for evidence from
outside the immediate events.”</p>

<p>“Am I to understand that you have no further light on the
crime beyond what you gained when the bodies were found?”</p>

<p>“Hardly that, Mr. Woodman. I have at least had time to
think things over, and to conduct a few additional
investigations. But I shall know better what to make of these when I
have asked you a few questions.”</p>

<p>“Ask away; but I shall probably be able to answer more to
your satisfaction if you tell me how matters stand. I think I
may say that I know thoroughly both Sir Vernon’s and the
late Mr. Prinsep’s affairs.”</p>

<p>“Well, you know, Mr. Woodman, the prima facie evidence
in both cases seemed to point to a quite impossible conclusion.
In each case, what evidence there was went to show that the
two men had murdered each other. This could not be true of
both; but we have so far no evidence to show whether it ought
to be disbelieved in both cases, or only in one. That is where
further particulars may prove so important.”</p>

<p>“I will tell you all I can.”</p>

<p>“Let us begin with Mr. Prinsep. Was he in any trouble
that you know of?”</p>

<p>The lawyer hesitated. “Well,” he said at length, “it is a
private matter, and I am sure it can have no bearing on the
case. But you had better have all the facts. There had
been some trouble—about a woman, a girl who is acting in a
small part at the Piccadilly Theatre.”</p>

<p>“Her name?”</p>

<p>“Charis Lang. Prinsep had been, well, I believe somewhat
intimate with her, and she had formed the opinion that he had
promised to marry her. He came to see me about it. He
denied that he had made any such promise, and said he was
anxious to get the matter honourably settled. I wrote to the
woman and asked her to meet me; but she refused—said it was
not a lawyer’s business, but entirely a private question between
her and Mr. Prinsep. I showed him her letter, and he was
very much worried. He informed me that Mrs. George
Brooklyn—she used to be leading lady at the Piccadilly—had
known the girl in her professional days, and I approached her
and told her a part of the story. She took, I must say, the
girl’s side, and said she was sure a promise of marriage had
been made. She wanted to take the matter up; but George
Brooklyn objected to his wife being mixed up in it, and
undertook to see Miss Lang himself. He was to have done so two
nights ago—the night of the murders—and then to have gone
back to tell Prinsep what had happened. I have no means of
knowing whether he actually did so.”</p>

<p>“This is very important. Can you give me Miss Lang’s
address?”</p>

<p>“I have it here. Somewhere in Hammersmith. Yes, 3
Algernon Terrace. But she is at the theatre every evening, and
you could probably find her there.”</p>

<p>“I must certainly arrange to see her. Can you tell me
anything further about the young woman? For instance, is
she—well—respectable?”</p>

<p>“I have told you all I know. Mrs. George might know
more.”</p>

<p>“Thank you. Now, is there anything else you know about
Mr. Prinsep that might have a bearing on his death?”</p>

<p>“Nothing.”</p>

<p>“Had he any financial troubles?”</p>

<p>“None, I am sure. He had a large salary from the
Brooklyn Trust, besides a considerable personal income, and he
always lived well within his means.”</p>

<p>“Had he any enemies?”</p>

<p>Again the lawyer paused before answering. Finally, “No,”
he replied, “no <em>enemies</em>.”</p>

<p>The inspector took the cue.</p>

<p>“But there were some people you know of with whom he
was not on the best of terms?” he asked.</p>

<p>“I think I may say ‘yes’ to that. He had a temper, and
there had been violent disputes on several occasions with Mr.
Walter Brooklyn—Sir Vernon’s brother.”</p>

<p>“One moment. Was he on good terms with Mr. George
Brooklyn?”</p>

<p>Again a pause. “No, I can’t say he was—but they were
not enemies. George thought he had behaved badly to Charis
Lang, and said so. Also, George was strongly against
Prinsep’s marrying Miss Joan Cowper, which Sir Vernon had set
his heart on.”</p>

<p>And then, in question and answer, the whole episode at the
dinner, the announcement of Sir Vernon’s will, and Joan’s
dramatic refusal to marry Prinsep, gradually came out. The
inspector felt that now at last he was learning things.</p>

<p>“Did Miss Cowper know about Miss Lang?”</p>

<p>“Not that I am aware of. But I can’t be sure. Mrs.
George may have told her.”</p>

<p>“And what would you say were the relations between Miss
Cowper and Mr. Prinsep?”</p>

<p>“He was half in love with her—in a sort of a way. At any
rate he certainly wanted to marry her. She was most certainly
not in love with him. I don’t think she had any strong feeling
against him; but it is impossible to be sure. She would have
done almost anything rather than marry him, I am certain.”</p>

<p>“Had Miss Cowper, so far as you know, any other
attachment?”</p>

<p>“That is a difficult question. She is very thick with Robert
Ellery, the young playwright, you know; but whether she is
in love with him is more than I can tell you. He is obviously
in love with her. It was the common talk, and everybody,
knew about it except Sir Vernon.”</p>

<p>“This Mr. Ellery—can you tell me anything about him?
He was at the dinner, was he not?”</p>

<p>“Yes, he’s a ward of old Mr. Lucas, one of Sir Vernon’s
oldest friends. A good deal about with Joan, and a frequent
visitor at Sir Vernon’s country place. A nice enough fellow,
so far as I have seen.”</p>

<p>“Was he on good terms with Mr. Prinsep?”</p>

<p>“Prinsep did not like his going about with Joan, I think.
Otherwise, they seemed to get on all right.”</p>

<p>“Now, Mr. Woodman, I want to ask you a somewhat
difficult question. I should, of course, ask Sir Vernon himself, if
he were well enough. You know, presumably, the terms of
Sir Vernon’s will. Do you feel at liberty to tell me about its
contents? They might throw some light on the question of
motive.”</p>

<p>The lawyer thought a moment. “I don’t see why I
shouldn’t tell you the whole thing—in confidence,” he said.
“Sir Vernon told them all that night what was in his will,
and you certainly ought to know about it. The greater part
of his property was to be divided at his death between his two
nephews, who have now unhappily predeceased him.”</p>

<p>“Yes, and in the event of the death of either or both of the
nephews, what was to happen?”</p>

<p>“If Mr. George Brooklyn died, half of his share was to go
to Mrs. George and half to Prinsep. If Prinsep died, half
of his share was to go to Miss Joan Cowper. Sir Vernon
explained that his arrangements were based on her marrying
Prinsep.”</p>

<p>“Then, under the will, Miss Cowper now gets half Mr.
Prinsep’s share. Does she get half Mr. George’s share also?”</p>

<p>“No, a part of it goes to Mrs. George, and the remainder in
both cases to the next of kin.”</p>

<p>“I see. And who is the next of kin.”</p>

<p>“Joan’s step-father, Mr. Walter Brooklyn.”</p>

<p>“Ah! I think you mentioned that Mr. Walter Brooklyn
was on bad terms with Mr. Prinsep.”</p>

<p>“Walter Brooklyn was on bad terms with most people who
knew him. His step-daughter left him after her mother’s
death, and came to live with Sir Vernon. I am afraid Walter
Brooklyn is not a very likeable person.”</p>

<p>“On what terms was he with Sir Vernon?”</p>

<p>“He was always trying to get money from him. He had
ran through one big fortune, his wife’s—including all the
money left in trust for Miss Cowper. He leads a fairly
expensive life in town, supported, I understand, partly by his
bridge earnings and partly on what he can raise from his
friends.”</p>

<p>“Did Sir Vernon give him money?”</p>

<p>“Yes, far more than I thought desirable. But Sir Vernon
had a very strong sense of family solidarity. Latterly,
however, Walter Brooklyn’s demands had become so exorbitant
that Sir Vernon had been refusing to see him, and had handed
the matter over to Prinsep, whom Walter was finding a much
more difficult man to deal with.”</p>

<p>“Do you know whether Prinsep had been seeing Mr. Walter
Brooklyn lately?”</p>

<p>“Yes; I know he saw him the day before the murder.
Walter was always after money. He’ll probably begin sponging
on Miss Cowper in a day or two.”</p>

<p>“You certainly do not give Mr. Walter Brooklyn a good
character.”</p>

<p>“No; but I think every one you ask will confirm my
estimate.”</p>

<p>“I will look into that. Now, are there any other particulars
in the will I ought to know about? I should like to know
approximately what Sir Vernon is worth.”</p>

<p>“Not far short of a million.”</p>

<p>“You don’t say so. Then any one interested in his will had
a great deal at stake. Are any others interested besides those
you have mentioned?”</p>

<p>“There are a number of smaller legacies. Miss Cowper was
left £40,000. My sister, Miss Mary Woodman, and I are
left £20,000 each. The rest are quite small legacies.”</p>

<p>“I think that is almost all I need ask you. But is there any
other particular you think might help me in my inquiry?”</p>

<p>“As to that, I cannot say; but there are two points I have
been intending to mention. The first is that I know Mr.
Walter Brooklyn called at Liskeard House a few minutes
after ten on the night of the murder. My wife and I saw him
go up to the porch and ring the bell just after we had come
out of the house.”</p>

<p>“This is very important. Do you know anything more?”</p>

<p>“No, it was merely a chance that I noticed him and pointed
him out to my wife. Mr. and Mrs. George may also have
seen him. They were with us. He went into the hall. That
is all I can tell you.”</p>

<p>“Where did you go when you left the house?”</p>

<p>“Straight back to the hotel where I was staying. I did not
go out again that night. I heard nothing about the tragedy
till they rang me up about it at my office the next morning.”</p>

<p>“Who rang you up?”</p>

<p>“One of the servants at Liskeard House. I do not know
which it was.”</p>

<p>“And what was the other point you wished to mention?”</p>

<p>“Only that I know Mr. Walter Brooklyn was in exceptional
financial difficulties, and had been trying in vain to raise a
loan. This has happened very opportunely for him.”</p>

<p>“But, of course, Sir Vernon may alter his will.”</p>

<p>“If he recovers enough to do so, he may. But I doubt if
he will. He always told me that he could not bear the thought
of leaving money out of the family. And much as he
disapproves of Walter Brooklyn, he is still attached to him.”</p>

<p>“H’m. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Woodman.
What you have told me has been very helpful. Perhaps I
will call again and tell you what success I meet with in
following it up. I may, of course, have more to ask you later.”</p>

<p>The inspector rose and Woodman gave him his hand. He
went out of the office with his hand tingling.</p>

<p>“Certainly a man who impresses himself upon one,” said he,
laughing softly to himself. “And what he had to say was
most enlightening.”</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
