<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h2><p epub:type="title">Walter Brooklyn Goes Free</p></hgroup>

<p>The business transacted at Thomas’s office that morning
was protracted; but the result of it was never in doubt.
Thomas had before long to admit that he had been suspecting
an innocent man, and that man his own client. At first he
was inclined to be incredulous; but, when witness after
witness was produced, he had to admit absolutely that Joan and
Ellery had proved their case. The testimony of one, or even
two, witnesses might have been doubted; but the cumulative
effect of the evidence, given by the old night-watchman, Kitty
Frensham, and Horace Mandleham, and the men whom “the
Spaniard” had found, was irresistible. It was true that the
evidence of the stick and the telephone message which Walter
Brooklyn was supposed to have sent were unaffected by the
case which Joan and Ellery had prepared; but Thomas, though
he knew nothing of Superintendent Wilson’s new view of the
case, agreed that any charge based on these would certainly
collapse in face of a conclusive alibi. Thomas confidently
stated that it was only a matter of a short time before Walter
Brooklyn would be released “without a stain on his
character.”</p>

<p>There were stains enough on it already, Joan said to
herself, even if this last disgrace were removed. Walter
Brooklyn was not guilty of murder, and had been, in this case,
unjustly accused. But no amount of sympathy with him in his
present misfortune could wipe out the recollection of what
she had suffered while she had still felt it her duty to live
with him. She had done her best to absolve him of the
charge of murder, because she was fully assured of his
innocence; but, that once accomplished, she desired to have no
more to do with him. When, therefore, Thomas suggested
that she should go at once to the prison and tell her
stepfather the good news, while he and Ellery saw the police
and endeavoured to make arrangements for his release,
Joan refused and said that she would prefer Thomas to see
his client himself. To the rest of the suggested programme
she agreed, and Thomas at once got through on the ’phone to
Superintendent Wilson, and arranged an immediate
appointment. Joan and Ellery agreed with him that the best course
was to tell the police the whole story at once, and, instead
of waiting for the trial, to endeavour to secure Walter
Brooklyn’s release as soon as the necessary formalities could be
carried through.</p>

<p>Taking their witnesses with them, therefore, Joan, Ellery,
and Thomas set out for Scotland Yard. There they left the
witnesses in a waiting-room, and were at once shown in to the
superintendent. Inspector Blaikie, who had been sent for
when Thomas’s message was received, was also present, and
the two police officers now heard from Joan and Ellery what
they had done. The superintendent listened very quietly to
their story, in one of his favourite attitudes, with his eyes
closed most of the time, his legs thrust out before him, and
his hands buried deep in his trousers pockets. The inspector
once or twice tried to interrupt, and was at first obviously
incredulous. But, before they had done, the strength of their
case was evident, even to him, and the testimony of the
witnesses, who were then called in and examined one by one, was
quite conclusive in its cumulative effect. Walter Brooklyn
had been seen by no less than seven persons, and it was quite
inconceivable, in view of the times and places at which they
had seen him, that he could have made his way into and out
of Liskeard House and committed even a single murder, in
the time available. The superintendent jotted down a list
of the independent testimonies which went to the making of
the alibi.</p>

<p class="times">10.15 or so. Shown out of Liskeard House by Winter.</p>

<p class="times">10.20 or so. Seen by porter at Piccadilly Theatre walking
  up Piccadilly towards the Circus.</p>

<p class="times">10.45. Seen in Leicester Square by Kitty Frensham and
  Horace Mandleham.</p>

<p class="times">11.20 or so. Seen in Piccadilly Circus by night-watchman.</p>

<p class="times">11.30 or so. Seen by taxi-driver near Liskeard Street in
  Piccadilly (exact time uncertain).</p>

<p class="times">11.35 (about). Seen, at time not precisely fixed, but it must
  have been at this time, by “the Spaniard,” leaning on the
  parapet and then walking along the top of Trafalgar
  Square.</p>

<p class="times">11.45. Seen by witness of unknown occupation at the top
  of Whitehall and followed by him up Cockspur Street
  and Regent Street, as far as the corner of Jermyn Street.</p>

<p class="times">12 midnight. Seen by night-porter entering the Byron Club
  (the porter is positive he did not go out again).</p>

<p>When the last witness had withdrawn the superintendent
looked at his notes.</p>

<p>“What do you make of it now?” asked Thomas. The
reply, unhesitatingly given, was that the alibi seemed to be
conclusive.</p>

<p>“I admit,” said the superintendent, “that for a time we
were barking up the wrong tree. There remain, of course,
to be explained the telephone message and the presence of
your client’s stick. I don’t say that we shan’t have to test
even the alibi further—some of your witnesses are of rather
doubtful character. But personally I admit that I have no
doubt about it; indeed, quite apart from the alibi, I had
already made up my mind on other grounds that your client
was innocent. Your discoveries merely confirm my opinion.”</p>

<p>“Then you agree,” said Thomas, “that my client ought to
be released.”</p>

<p>“Before you answer that question, sir,” put in Inspector
Blaikie, “may I have a word? I admit that what we have
just heard is very powerful testimony; but surely the
telephone message proves that Mr. Brooklyn was in the house,
and therefore that there is something wrong with the alibi. To
say nothing of the stick. I hope you won’t agree to a release
at least until there has been time to look into the matter
further.”</p>

<p>The superintendent rose from his chair. “You will excuse
us for a moment,” he said to the others, and he beckoned to the
inspector to follow him into the adjoining room. “My dear
inspector,” he said, when he had shut the door, “you will kindly
leave me to manage this affair.”</p>

<p>The inspector replied, “Certainly, sir”; but he added, half
to himself, “All the same, I believe he did it.”</p>

<p>“I shall order release—I mean I shall announce that the
prosecution is withdrawn, and get the man released as soon as
possible. To my mind the alibi is quite convincing. But,
even apart from it, I was going to tell you this morning that I
proposed to recommend Walter Brooklyn’s release. I will
explain my reasons when the others have gone. You leave it to
me.”</p>

<p>The inspector said nothing, but followed his superior officer
back into the other room.</p>

<p>“Well, Mr. Thomas,” said the superintendent, “I shall
certainly offer no opposition to your client’s release. Will you
take the necessary steps on your side?”</p>

<p>Thomas said that he would, and the superintendent added
that, in that case, there should be neither difficulty nor delay.
Only formal evidence of arrest had been offered before the
magistrate, and they might now consider the charge as
definitely dropped.</p>

<p>Joan began to thank him; but he stopped her.</p>

<p>“It is not a matter for thanks,” he said. “We appear to
have arrested the wrong man, and the need for apologies, if it
exists, is on our side. You will, however, agree that
appearances were strongly against Mr. Brooklyn, and that we could
hardly have taken any other course. Indeed, it seems clear
that whoever did commit the murder, or murders, must have
deliberately planned to throw suspicion on your stepfather.
That, I think, furnishes an important clue.”</p>

<p>“But I suppose you have now no idea at all who the
murderer was?”</p>

<p>“It is hardly fair to ask me that question, Miss Cowper,”
said the superintendent, smiling. “You come here, and knock
the police theory into smithereens, and then you ask us if we
have another theory ready-made. No. We have not a theory,
but we do possess certain very important clues.”</p>

<p>At this point Thomas had a word to say. “It is just
possible that I may be able to help you there. In preparing for
the defence of my client, I had, of course, to consider who the
criminal, or criminals, might be, and to make certain inquiries.
I lighted on certain information which you may find useful. I
am not likely to need it now; but I will gladly make you a
present of it for what it is worth.”</p>

<p>“What is your information?”</p>

<p>“I believe you have been watching certain of the servants at
Liskeard House—Morgan, I mean, and the butler, Winter.”</p>

<p>The superintendent glanced at Inspector Blaikie, who
nodded.</p>

<p>“You may, or may not, have discovered that the man Winter
had a very strong personal cause of quarrel with Mr. Prinsep;
quite enough, I think, to be the motive of a serious crime.”</p>

<p>The superintendent again looked towards Inspector Blaikie,
who very slightly shook his head. Then he said to Thomas,
“I think you had better tell us all you know.”</p>

<p>“Well, to begin with, the butler had a violent quarrel with
Mr. Prinsep a few days before the murder, and was practically
given notice to leave. That can be proved by the evidence of
the maidservants and of Morgan.”</p>

<p>“This is the first I’ve heard of it,” said Joan, “and what’s
more, I don’t believe it. Winter is a very old and trusted
family servant. I am sure Mr. Prinsep would not have given him
notice.”</p>

<p>“The maids say that the notice was not quite definite, and
that Winter was not sure whether he would have to go or not.
He spoke to Morgan about it. But the evidence as to the
quarrel is quite decisive.”</p>

<p>“I think it’s horrible,” said Joan. “I’m every bit as sure
that Winter had nothing to do with it as I am about my
stepfather. And what if they did have a quarrel? John—Mr.
Prinsep, I mean—was always hot-tempered.”</p>

<p>“I have not yet told the inspector what the quarrel was
about. It was about the girl Winter was engaged to—a girl
down at Fittleworth—the head gardener’s daughter, I believe.
I understand that Mr. Prinsep had some relations with her,
and Winter objected.”</p>

<p>At this Joan suddenly went red all over; but she said
nothing. The superintendent, who was watching her, said very
quietly, “Do you know this girl, Miss Cowper, and can you
throw any light on the incident? I am sorry to ask; but—”
he paused for her answer.</p>

<p>“Of course I know the girl well; but I would rather not
speak of it. I had no idea that she was to be married to
Winter.”</p>

<p>“Very well, Miss Cowper. I see that you do know, and that
there is some truth in the story. Can you say that there is
not?”</p>

<p>“I prefer not to say anything.”</p>

<p>“That will do. I see your point, Mr. Thomas. This
certainly provides what we have been seeking—a possible motive
for Mr. Prinsep’s murder. But, of course, it is merely a
possible indication. There is no evidence against Winter, as far
as I am aware.”</p>

<p>“That, Mr. Superintendent, is entirely your business. I
merely gave you what information I had gathered. Tracking
down the criminal is fortunately no concern of mine.”</p>

<p>“Quite so. And that is the whole of your information?”</p>

<p>“Yes. Apart from that I know no more than you know
already.”</p>

<p>“Then I can only thank you for the help you have given;
and assure you that everything possible shall be done to
expedite your client’s release. And, by the way, you had better say
nothing to any one else of what you have just told me.” And
thereupon, with the skill born of long practice, the
superintendent bowed his visitors out of the room. To Inspector Blaikie
he spoke a word, asking him to remain for a few minutes’
discussion.</p>

<p>Joan’s indignation burst forth as soon as she was outside
the building. She was particularly angry with Thomas.</p>

<p>“I call it abominable. We have just succeeded in clearing
one innocent man, whom an hour or two ago you believed to be
guilty: and now you are wantonly throwing suspicion on some
one else. What business is it of yours? I know Winter had
nothing to do with it.”</p>

<p>“That is all very well, Miss Cowper; but it was my duty to
tell the police, and, moreover, by doing so, I probably speeded
up Mr. Brooklyn’s release by at least twenty-four hours.
It is always wise to have the police on your side—when you
can.”</p>

<p>“If it was your duty, why didn’t you tell the police when you
first found it out?”</p>

<p>“I will be quite frank with you, Miss Cowper. I did not,
because, until your very smart work in proving Mr. Brooklyn’s
alibi, my best chance of getting him off was to be able to throw
unexpected suspicion on some one else at the trial.”</p>

<p>“I call it beastly—even to think of using methods like that.”</p>

<p>Thomas was very suave. “But I suppose, Miss Cowper, you
would not have liked to see your stepfather condemned. I had
to do the best I could.”</p>

<p>“I don’t care. It can’t be right to throw suspicion on an
innocent man like that. Do you—yourself—believe Winter did
it? Why didn’t you do what he did—clear my stepfather by
proving the truth of what he said?”</p>

<p>“Perhaps, Miss Cowper, it was because I am not so clever as
you are. I have already congratulated you on the way you
have managed this affair.”</p>

<p>“I don’t want your congratulations. Do you believe Winter
did it?”</p>

<p>“As to that, Miss Cowper, I do not pretend to know. It is
for the police, and not for me, to find out.”</p>

<p>Joan, on hearing this, simply turned her back on him, and
walked away. Thomas very politely raised his hat to her back,
told Ellery that he must be off, and hailed a passing taxi.
Ellery hurried after Joan.</p>

<p>For a minute after he came up with her, she strode on fast,
saying nothing. Then, “Don’t you think it’s beastly?” she
said.</p>

<p>“I agree with you that Thomas is a cad, and I don’t believe
old Winter had anything to do with it. And I don’t think
there was any need for him to tell the police. But he probably
did it, as he said, in order to get the police on our side.”</p>

<p>“And now they’ll all be off full cry after Winter. I
suppose they will want to arrest him next.”</p>

<p>Ellery shook his head. “Hardly, without more evidence
than they possess. But they will probably have him watched.”</p>

<p>There was a further silence, during which Joan continued to
walk fast, staring straight in front of her. At last she said,
“I’ve been thinking, and I’m sure I see what we ought to do.
So far we have only been trying to prove that my stepfather
did not do it. We’ve succeeded. But at this rate we shall all
of us be suspected in turn. There’s only one thing for it.
There will be no peace and quietness till some one finds the
criminal. I don’t believe the police will ever find him. Why
shouldn’t you and I find him ourselves? We haven’t done
badly so far.”</p>

<p>Ellery whistled. “That’s a much taller order than proving
your stepfather’s alibi,” he said. “But I’m game. There
certainly won’t be much peace for any of us till somebody finds
out who did do it. But I’m dashed if I know how to begin.”</p>

<p>“Neither do I, at present. We have to think it all out, and
make a fresh start. Come home with me, and we’ll start
planning it at once.”</p>

<p>“They say two heads are better than one, and I’m prepared
to be your very faithful follower. But you’ll have to be
Sherlock Holmes, I’m afraid.”</p>

<p>“Come along then, Watson. But try not to be as stupid as
your namesake.”</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
