<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h2><p epub:type="title">Raising the Wind</p></hgroup>

<p>Walter Brooklyn’s release was arranged more
quickly than any one had expected, and, while Ellery
and Joan were still engaged in the conversation just reported,
he came out of Brixton Jail a free man. At the gate he
said good-bye to Thomas, and, hailing a taxi, ordered the man
to drive to his Club. The porter at the Byron met him
as he entered with an incredulous stare; for he was a firm
believer in the theory that Brooklyn was guilty, and had for
days past been telling all his friends, and those of the Club
members who would listen to him, of the important part which,
he himself had played in bringing the murderer to justice.
Walter Brooklyn was not popular in the Club; and, by
members and servants alike, the assumption of his guilt had been
readily accepted.</p>

<p>Brooklyn passed the porter without a word, and went
straight up to his room. As he passed by the door leading to
the kitchen stairs, a discreetly faint smell of cooking floated up
to him, and he thought how pleasant it would be to see a
good dinner before him again in the comfortable Club
dining-room. But a second thought gave him pause. Could he face
his fellow-members just yet? He could pretty accurately
guess what they had been saying about him; and he was not
at all sure what his reception would be. It would be better
to give time for the news of his release, and the convincing
evidence of his innocence, to get round the club before he
made a public reappearance. But a good dinner was
indispensable. His first act on regaining the privacy of his
apartment was to take up the house ’phone which connected with
the kitchens, and to order dinner to be sent up to his room.
The start of surprise which the chef gave on hearing who
was speaking to him he could visualize over the ’phone as
clearly as if the man had been standing before him in the
same room. He was all the more careful for that reason
in ordering his dinner, discussing the merits of one course
after another at length with the chef. He meant to do
himself well, and he meant the servants to understand that he
was back quite on the old footing.</p>

<p>But Walter Brooklyn had other things to consider besides
his reinstatement as a more or less respectable member of
society. He was literally almost penniless, and he knew that
his release from prison would merely reopen in a more
insistent form the long struggle with his creditors. He must
have money, and he must have it at once. His attempt to
get money from Prinsep had completely failed, and
Woodman had very decisively refused to give him an advance.
But a great deal had happened since then. Now
both Prinsep and George Brooklyn were dead; and, in
more ways than one, that meant a change in his own situation.
Prinsep had been the main obstacle between him and Sir
Vernon, and there was at least a chance that, if he could see his
brother, he would be able to get a substantial loan. He knew
that Sir Vernon was very ill; but, if only he was not too ill
to be approached, that might make the job all the easier.
Could he not persuade the sick man to back a bill for him, or
better still, write a cheque in his favour? That was one
possibility. But there was another. Now that George and
Prinsep were out of the way, who was there to whom Sir Vernon
could leave his wealth? Only Joan and himself. Marian
Brooklyn would doubtless get something, and Mary Woodman;
but the bulk of the property would hardly go to them.
Walter knew well enough Sir Vernon’s strong sense of family
loyalty; and he was fairly sure that, in the changed
circumstances, he would profit heavily when his brother died. Might
it not be better, instead of risking the giving of offence to
Sir Vernon by asking for a loan, to try to raise the money on
the strength of his expectations? From that point of view,
Sir Vernon’s illness would make the chances of success all the
greater.</p>

<p>Walter Brooklyn had no positive knowledge of Sir Vernon’s
will. Some time back, however, Sir Vernon had written to
him, enclosing one of the many “last cheques” which he had
given to his brother, to tell him that, “except in a very remote
contingency,” he could expect no further assistance, “whether
I am dead or alive.” Sir Vernon had added, “I may as well tell
you that I have left the bulk of my property to my two
nephews; and, as long as they live, you will receive only a
comparatively small legacy. You have forfeited all claim to
my esteem, and, as long as I have other near relatives to
whom I can leave my property, I feel under no obligations to
place any of it in your hands. I know too well what you
would do with it. I tell you this in order that you may not
deceive yourself by any false expectations.”</p>

<p>Little had Sir Vernon expected, when he wrote his letter,
that the time would come when it would positively encourage
his brother to look forward to a big legacy. Walter had seen
Sir Vernon after receiving that letter; and, while his brother
had told him nothing positive, he had come away with a shrewd
idea that he could expect nothing except in the unlikely event
of both nephews dying before Sir Vernon, but that, in that
event, he would get the bulk of the money. The question
was whether Sir Vernon had altered his will, or whether he
would do so now, when the money was likely actually to pass
to his brother. Even if he wished to alter it, was he well
enough to do so? That must be discovered.</p>

<p>He could find out easily enough about Sir Vernon’s health.
Joan would tell him that, even if she had a good suspicion
of his reasons for wishing to know. But would Joan be in
a position to tell him what was in the will, and would it even
be wise to ask her? He was under no illusions. Joan would
not want him to have the money, and, even if he stood to
benefit now, she would be just the person to persuade Sir Vernon
to make a new will. Moreover, there was only one person
who would be certain to know what the will contained, and
that was Carter Woodman.</p>

<p>Walter Brooklyn’s first idea, when he got thus far, was to
see Woodman, find out about the will, and try to arrange
for a loan on the strength of his expectations. But would
this do either? Woodman was no friend of his; and, if his
attention were called to the matter, he might easily induce Sir
Vernon to make a fresh will. Yet Woodman was the only
person through whom he could hope to arrange for an advance; for
Woodman alone would know whether or not Walter was now
Sir Vernon’s heir. And somehow an advance must be got,
and got quickly.</p>

<p>There must surely, he thought, be some way round the
difficulty. Walter Brooklyn was no fool; and he set himself
deliberately to devise some method of raising the wind with
Woodman’s aid. He came speedily to the conclusion that
there was only one way in which it could be done. He must
somehow get Woodman on to his side. That was not
altogether impossible, much as the two men disliked each other.
It was, Walter told himself, merely a matter of money.</p>

<p>Woodman, he considered, would certainly receive a legacy
under any will Sir Vernon might make. Probably a few
thousands, in return for his services. But he supposed that
Woodman could entertain no hope of being one of the principal
beneficiaries.</p>

<p>Woodman’s expectations were probably small. But Walter
Brooklyn had good reason to believe that, despite his
apparent prosperity, Woodman was hard pressed for money. Left
alone in Woodman’s office for a few minutes the week before,
he had hurriedly turned over certain private papers on the
desk, and had gathered enough information to be sure that
Woodman, like himself, would do a good deal for a supply of
ready money. Might not this fact, he wondered, open up
the possibility of a bargain? If, as he believed, the will was
now in his favour, he could offer Woodman very favourable
terms for negotiating an advance on his behalf. He would
offer Woodman a share⁠—a substantial share⁠—as a loan⁠—of
whatever he could raise on the strength of Walter’s
expectations.</p>

<p>Why waste time? He would at least see at once whether
Woodman was at his office, and try to arrange an
appointment. The telephone was at his elbow, and he rang up.
Woodman was there, and Walter got straight through to him.
His clerks had already gone home for the night.</p>

<p>“Who is speaking?” came the voice from the other end.</p>

<p>“Walter Brooklyn this end. I want to see you as soon as
possible.”</p>

<p>As he gave his name, Walter heard a gasp from the man
at the other end of the wire. Then, “Where are you
speaking from?” came the voice.</p>

<p>“Not from Brixton, if that is what you mean. I’m
speaking from the Byron Club.”</p>

<p>“Good God, man! How on earth⁠—”</p>

<p>“The police released me this afternoon. I am completely
cleared of this charge, although I understand you were good
enough to believe me guilty.”</p>

<p>To this there came no answer.</p>

<p>“I must see you privately at once.”</p>

<p>“What about?”</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you that when we meet. Will you come round
here?”</p>

<p>“When?”</p>

<p>“To-night, if you can. I shall be in my room all the
evening.”</p>

<p>“Not to-night. I have an engagement.”</p>

<p>“Then to-morrow morning.”</p>

<p>“Very well. At about eleven.”</p>

<p>“I’ll be here. Good-night.”</p>

<p>Each man as he hung up the receiver had plenty to think
about. Brooklyn was perfecting his scheme for raising a loan
with Woodman’s aid, and reflecting upon the various ways in
which he might approach the subject. Carter Woodman also
stood silent with a heavy frown on his face.</p>

<p>The fact that Walter Brooklyn had been released, although
the evidence against him seemed overwhelming, came as a great
surprise to Woodman. Something curious must have happened,
When Brooklyn rang off, he had been on the point of asking
for further details. He would get them somehow elsewhere.
He would try to see the inspector. He rang up Scotland
Yard.</p>

<p>“Hallo. Is that Inspector Blaikie? Carter Woodman
speaking.”</p>

<p>“Is that you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman? I was just trying to get
through to you myself. Are you at your office? Then may
I come around and see you for a few minutes? Will
what you wanted to say to me keep till I get round? Very
well, I’ll be with you in half a jiffy.”</p>

<p>This was a piece of luck. Woodman would get the full
story from the inspector, and he would also be able to give
in return a piece of information which, he thought, would
make Scotland Yard sit up. How on earth had they come to
release Walter Brooklyn? Well, there was such a thing as
re-arrest. After all, the man had not been acquitted.</p>

<p>The inspector arrived in less than a quarter of an hour.
He explained that he wished to ask Woodman a few
questions relating to Prinsep’s private affairs, and also involving,
he believed, certain of the servants at Liskeard House. Had
Woodman heard anything of some trouble with a girl down
at Fittleworth⁠—the head gardener’s daughter⁠—a Miriam
Smith?</p>

<p>Yes, Woodman did know about it; but he had not
mentioned it before, as it was confidential, and there was no
reason to believe it had anything to do with the murders.
Prinsep had commissioned him to settle with the girl for a
lump sum payment, in consideration of which she was to
leave the district. Woodman understood there would be a
child. Undoubtedly, Prinsep had behaved badly to the girl;
but it was not the first time. Was there any reason to
connect the incident with the murders?</p>

<p>“There may be, or there may not, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman. Are
you aware that the girl was engaged to be married to the
butler at Liskeard House? Winter, his name is.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I know Winter. A most trusted old family servant.
I had no idea that he was engaged to the girl. But I feel quite
sure you are wrong if you connect him in any way with the
murders. He is the last man to be mixed up in such a thing.
Besides, between ourselves, I haven’t a doubt that it was
Walter Brooklyn who killed Prinsep. He may have killed George
Brooklyn, too, or Prinsep may. But surely there is not much
doubt he killed Prinsep.”</p>

<p>“I see you have not heard the news, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman.
Walter Brooklyn was released this afternoon.”</p>

<p>Woodman thought that he would get fuller information if
he simulated ignorance and astonishment.</p>

<p>“Released? Whatever for?” he said.</p>

<p>“Because our evidence seems to show that he had nothing
to do with it.”</p>

<p>“But, good heavens! there was his stick, and the telephone
message, and his quarrel with Prinsep. What more do you
want?”</p>

<p>“I can’t go into the details, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman. But we have
been convinced that he didn’t do it.”</p>

<p>“Of course, if you have made up your mind, it is no good
my telling you what I was going to tell you. But, when I
last saw you, you were sure enough he was guilty. What on
earth has made you change your opinion?”</p>

<p>“If you have further information, you should certainly tell
me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman. We ought to know everything that has
a possible bearing on the case.”</p>

<p>“I will tell you; but it must be between ourselves. You
know Thomas, who is Walter Brooklyn’s present solicitor.
The man knows his client is guilty, and he had the effrontery
to come here and ask me to help him in arranging a collusive
defence.”</p>

<p>“Indeed, what was it he proposed?”</p>

<p>“That I should help him in an attempt to shift the
suspicion to the men-servants. Of course, I refused to have
anything to do with such dishonourable tactics. Thomas
admitted to me that his client was guilty. I am only
surprised that he seems to have succeeded so well in deceiving the
police.”</p>

<p>“You say that Thomas admitted Brooklyn’s guilt to you?”
asked the inspector, half-incredulously, but with a note of
excitement in his voice.</p>

<p>“Undoubtedly, he did. Of course, I should not have told you
if he had not made me that dishonourable proposal. I am
telling you now in order to save an innocent man from suspicion.”</p>

<p>“This is very strange, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman. The proofs of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn’s innocence were considered to be conclusive.
Superintendent Wilson very strongly holds that they are conclusive.
He appears to have a perfect alibi.”</p>

<p>“Alibis can be faked, and usually are.”</p>

<p>“This one has been pretty thoroughly tested. But, in
view of what you say, I must certainly take up the matter
again at once. Of course, my first step will be to have a talk
with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thomas.”</p>

<p>“Pardon me, inspector, but I hope you will not do that.
I have told you this in strict confidence, and it would
endanger my professional position if it were known that I had
done so.”</p>

<p>“Surely not. The fact that the man made you a
dishonourable proposal absolves you.”</p>

<p>“He would deny it, and it would be only my word against
his. He would merely deny, too, that he ever considered his
client to be guilty. What else could he do? And we could
not prove it.”</p>

<p>The inspector stood silent for a moment, biting his lip,
while he thought the position over. Then he said⁠—</p>

<p>“Very well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman. Perhaps you are right. But
I think I can get at the truth in another way. I will let
you know the result. Rest assured that what you say will
be given full weight.”</p>

<p>“All I want is to prevent you from going on a wild goose
chase after poor old Winter. I’ve known him since I was a
baby, and he is quite incapable of doing what you suggest.”</p>

<p>“That is as may be, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman. We are not inclined
to suspect him seriously without further evidence. But I will
certainly look into what you tell me about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter
Brooklyn. And now, there is another matter about which I want
to ask you one or two questions.”</p>

<p>“Ask away.”</p>

<p>“You were good enough to give me very full particulars
about the contents of Sir Vernon Brooklyn’s will; but there
were one or two points about which I omitted to ask you.
Perhaps you will not mind clearing them up now. In the
first place, as matters stand now, who did you say were the
principal beneficiaries? I have the facts here in my
notebook, but I want to check them.”</p>

<p>“Let me see. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> George Brooklyn gets one half of the
sum which would have gone to George Brooklyn, and Miss
Cowper half of what would have gone to John Prinsep. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn is the residuary legatee, and stands, I
suppose, to inherit about half a million, unless the will is altered.”</p>

<p>“Thank you. The further point I want to know is what the
position would be if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn were to die before
Sir Vernon. Who would be the residuary legatee in that
case?”</p>

<p>Woodman paused for a moment before replying. Then
he said, “The residue would go, of course, to the next of
kin.”</p>

<p>“Who is that? I think you have not mentioned any other
relatives.”</p>

<p>“To the best of my belief, inspector, I myself am the next
of kin after Walter Brooklyn.”</p>

<p>The inspector whistled. “Then you would inherit the bulk
of the money if Sir Vernon Brooklyn died after Walter
Brooklyn.”</p>

<p>“Yes, that is, unless a new will were made. I should, of
course, have to inform Sir Vernon fully as to the
circumstances.”</p>

<p>“Quite so. And now there is just one further point. Sir
Vernon has not, I suppose, shown any desire so far to amend
his will.”</p>

<p>“He is far too ill to be troubled at present with matters of
business.”</p>

<p>“I see. Then, so far as you know, the old will stands.”</p>

<p>“Yes. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Brooklyn is at present the principal
heir.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman,” said the inspector, holding
out his hand.</p>

<p>When Inspector Blaikie had gone, Woodman sat down
again at his desk to think things over. What was the
purpose of the questions just addressed to him? Clearly, the
police had some new idea in their minds. They had come to
the conclusion, on grounds adequate or inadequate, that
Walter Brooklyn was not the murderer, and they were clearly
trying to find out afresh who else could have had a reasonable
motive. That was the only possible reason for the careful
inquiries into the terms of the will. Was it possible that the
police had a real new clue⁠—possibly even a definite
suspicion? Would they even begin suspecting him, now they had
discovered that he was next of kin? As long as Walter
Brooklyn lived, he stood to gain nothing. It was ridiculous
to think that he could be suspected.</p>

<p>The inspector also had a good deal to think about when he
left Woodman’s office. His first thought was to see his
superior officer; but he found that the superintendent was out, and
was not expected back for an hour or so. He made up his
mind to fill in the interval by clearing up the new question,
relating to Walter Brooklyn’s guilt, which Carter Woodman
had raised. He took a taxi, and drove to Liskeard House,
where he asked to see Miss Cowper. She received him at once,
and he came straight to the point.</p>

<p>“Miss Cowper, I have a question to ask you. You may
think it a very peculiar one, and you need not answer it if
you would rather not. I shall not tell any one that you
refused, or that I asked it. I want to know whether, so far as
you are aware, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thomas, your stepfather’s solicitor, at any
time believed in his client’s guilt. I should not ask you, of
course, if your stepfather had not been released. But I have
a reason for asking.”</p>

<p>Joan showed that the question startled her; but she
answered without hesitation. “Yes,” she said, “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thomas
did believe what you say until we undeceived him with the
evidence you also found convincing; indeed, that was why
<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ellery and I determined to go to work on our own. We
felt that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thomas, believing what was not true, would
never find out what was true. My stepfather told me that
he was sure Thomas believed him guilty; but he said, ‘I dare
say he’ll make as good a defence as another would when it
comes to the point.’ ”</p>

<p>“I will tell you, Miss Cowper, exactly why I asked the
question. It is being stated that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn actually confessed
his guilt to his solicitor, and that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thomas told a third
person that he was guilty. I should not, of course, tell
you this if I believed it to be true. Your answer quite satisfies
me that it is based on a misunderstanding.”</p>

<p>“It is preposterous,” said Joan indignantly. “My
stepfather told <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thomas the absolute truth; but the man
would not believe it, until we proved it to him.”</p>

<p>“That is just what I imagined, Miss Cowper. Thank you
very much for speaking to me so frankly. It has saved a
world of trouble. Let me assure you that no suspicion at all
now rests on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn.”</p>

<p>“I should hope not,” said Joan. “But who put this
abominable story about?”</p>

<p>“I cannot tell you that, Miss Cowper. But you may rest
secure that no more will be heard of it. May I use your
telephone for a moment on my way out?”</p>

<p>The permission was readily given, and, in the hall, the
inspector stepped into the little closed lobby, in which the
telephone was kept, and rang up Carter Woodman.</p>

<p>“Hallo, is that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman? Inspector Blaikie
speaking. I have looked into that matter about which you spoke
to me. About Walter Brooklyn, I mean⁠—his having told
Thomas that he was guilty. There’s nothing in it. No,
nothing in it. You made a mistake. You must have
misinterpreted what Thomas said. He did believe <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn
to be guilty, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn never told him so. It was
merely his personal opinion. What? Am I sure? Yes,
quite certain. No, I have not seen Thomas; but I am sure all
the same. Yes, I now regard <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn’s innocence as
quite established. Yes, quite certain. No doubt at all about
it. We made a very natural mistake when we arrested him;
but that’s all done with now. I think we are getting on the
right track. Thanks all the same. You were quite right
to tell me, though there proved to be nothing in it.
Good-night.”</p>

<p>The inspector hung up the receiver, and went on his way.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
