<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			
<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2><p epub:type="title">A Family Celebration</p></hgroup>

<p>At seventy Sir Vernon Brooklyn was still the outstanding
figure in the theatrical world. It was, indeed, ten years
since he had made his farewell appearance on the stage; and
with a consistency rare among the members of his profession,
he had persisted in making his first farewell also his
last. He had also for some time past resigned to younger
men the actual direction of his vast theatrical enterprises, which
included five great West End theatres and a steady stream of
touring companies in the provinces and overseas. Both as
actor and as manager, he was wont to say, his work was over;
but as Chairman of the Brooklyn Dramatic Corporation,
which conducted all its work under his name, he was almost
as much as ever in the eye of the public.</p>

<p>Like most men who have risen by their own efforts, aided
by fortune and by a public which takes a pleasure in idolatry,
to positions of wide authority, Sir Vernon had developed,
perhaps to excess, the habit of getting his own way. Thus,
although his niece and house-keeper, Joan Cowper, and his
near relatives and friends had done their best to dissuade him
from coming to London, he had ignored their protests, and
insisted on celebrating his seventieth birthday in the London
house, formerly the scene of his triumphs, which he now
seldom visited. Sir Vernon now spent most of his time at
the great country house in Sussex which he had bought ten
years before from Lord Fittleworth. There he entertained
largely, and there was no reason why he should not have taken
the advice of his relatives and his doctor, and gathered his
friends around him to celebrate what he was pleased to call
his “second majority.” But Sir Vernon had made up his
mind, and it was therefore in the old house just off Piccadilly
that his guests assembled for dinner on Midsummer Day,
June 25th.</p>

<p>Like Sir Vernon’s country place, the old house had a history.
He had bought it, and the grounds with their magnificent
garden frontage on Piccadilly, looking over the Green Park,
from Lord Liskeard, when that nobleman had successfully
gambled away the fortune which had made him, at one time,
the richest man in England who had no connection with trade.
Sir Vernon had turned his purchase to good use. Facing
Piccadilly, but standing well back in its garden from the
street, he had built the great Piccadilly Theatre, the perfect
playhouse in which, despite its size and large seating capacity,
every member of the audience could both see and hear. The
theatre covered a lot of ground; but, when it was built, there
still remained not only the old mansion fronting upon its
side-street—a cul de sac used by its visitors alone—but also,
between it and the theatre, a pleasant expanse of garden.
For some years Sir Vernon had lived in the house; and there
he had also worked, converting the greater part of the ground
floor into a palatial set of offices for the Brooklyn Dramatic
Corporation. On his retirement from active work, he had
kept in his own hands only the first floor, which he fitted as
a flat to house him on his visits to town. On the second
floor he had installed his nephew, John Prinsep, who had
succeeded him as managing director of the Corporation. The
third floor was given over to the servants who attended to
the whole house. It was in this house that Sir Vernon was
celebrating his birthday, and his guests were to dine with him
in the great Board Room of the Corporation on the ground
floor—formerly the banqueting hall of generations of
Liskeards, in which many a political plot had been hatched, and
many a diner carried helpless from under the table in the
bad days of the Prince Regent.</p>

<p>Between the house and the tall back of the theatre lay the
garden, in which a past Lord Liskeard with classical tastes
had erected a model Grecian temple and a quantity of
indifferent antique statuary, the fruits of his sojourn at the
Embassy of Constantinople.</p>

<p>In this garden, before dinner was served, a number of
Sir Vernon’s guests had already gathered. The old man had
been persuaded, despite the brilliant midsummer weather, to
remain in the house; but Joan Cowper and John Prinsep were
there to do the honours on his behalf. As Harry Lucas came
into the garden, John Prinsep was laughingly, as he said,
“showing off the points” of a dilapidated Hercules who, club,
lion-skin and all, was slowly mouldering under the trees at
one end of the lawn. The stone club had come loose, and
Prinsep had taken it from the statue, and was playfully
threatening to do classical execution with it upon the persons
of his guests. Seeing Lucas, he put the club back into the
broken hand of the statue, and came across the lawn to bid
him welcome.</p>

<p>“You’re the last to arrive, Mr. Lucas,” said he. “You
see it’s quite a family affair this evening.”</p>

<p>It was quite a family affair. Of the eight persons now on
the lawn, six were members of the Brooklyn family by birth
or marriage; Lucas was Sir Vernon’s oldest friend and
collaborator; and young Ellery, the remaining member of the
party, was Lucas’s ward, and was usually to be found, when
he had his will, somewhere in the neighbourhood of Joan
Cowper. As Sir Vernon had fully made up his mind that
Joan was to marry Prinsep, and there was supposed to be
some sort of engagement between them, Ellery’s attentions
were not welcome to Prinsep, and there was no love lost
between the two men.</p>

<p>But there was no sign of this in Prinsep’s manner this
evening. He seemed to be in unusually good spirits, rather
in contrast to his usual humour. For Prinsep was not
generally regarded as good company. Since he had succeeded
Sir Vernon in the business control of the Brooklyn
Corporation, of which he was managing director, he had grown more
and more preoccupied with affairs, and had developed a
brusque manner which may have served him well in dealing
with visitors who wanted something for nothing, but was
distinctly out of place in the social interchange of his leisure
hours. Prinsep had, indeed, his pleasures. He was reputed
a heavy drinker, whose magnificent natural constitution
prevented him from showing any of the signs of dissipation.
Many of Prinsep’s acquaintances—who were as many as his
friends were few—had seen him drink more than enough to
put an ordinary man under the table; but none had ever
seen him the worse for drink, and he was never better at a
bargain than when the other man had taken some glasses less
than he, but still a glass too much. Men said that he took
his pleasures sadly: certainly they had never been allowed to
interfere with his power of work; and often, after a hard
evening, he would go to his study and labour far into the
night. But, for this occasion, his sullenness seemed to have
left him, and his rather harsh laugh rang out repeatedly over
the garden.</p>

<p>Lucas had never liked Prinsep; and he soon found himself
one of a group that included Joan and Ellery and Mary
Woodman, a cousin of the Brooklyns who lived with Joan and
helped her to keep Sir Vernon’s house. Presently Joan drew
him aside.</p>

<p>“Uncle Harry,” she said, “there’s something I want to
tell you.”</p>

<p>Lucas was, in fact, no relation of the Brooklyns; but from
their childhood Joan and George Brooklyn had known him as
“Uncle Harry,” and had made him their confidant in many
of their early troubles. The habit had stuck; and now Joan
had a very serious trouble to tell him.</p>

<p>“You must do what you can to help me,” she said. “I’ve
told Uncle Vernon again to-day that on no account will I
ever marry John, and he absolutely refuses to listen to me.
He says it’s all settled, and his will’s made on that
understanding, and that we’re engaged, and a whole lot more. I
must make him realise that I won’t; but you know what he is.
I want you to speak to him for me.”</p>

<p>Lucas thought a moment before replying. Then, “My
dear,” he said, “I’m very sorry about it, and you know I will
do what I can; but is this quite the time? We should only
be accused, with some truth, of spoiling Sir Vernon’s
birthday. Let it alone for a few days, and then I’ll try talking
to him. But it won’t be easy, at any time.”</p>

<p>“Yes, uncle; but there’s a special reason why it must be
done to-night. Uncle Vernon tells me that he is going to
announce the terms of his will, and that he will speak of what
he calls John’s and my ‘engagement.’ I really can’t allow
that to happen. I don’t really mind about the will, or John
getting the money; but it must not be publicly given out that
John is to have me as well. Uncle Vernon has no right to
leave me as part of his ‘net personalty’ to John or anybody
else.”</p>

<p>Lucas sighed. He foresaw an awkward interview; for Sir
Vernon was not an easy man to deal with, and latterly every
year had made him more difficult. But he saw that he was in
for it, and, with a reassuring word to Joan, passed into the
house in search of his host.</p>

<p>As Joan turned back to rejoin the others, Robert Ellery
stepped quickly to her side. Slim and slightly built, he offered
a strong contrast to Prinsep’s tall, sturdy figure. Joan’s two
lovers were very different types. Ellery was not strictly
handsome; but he had an invincible air of being on good
terms with the world which, with a ready smile and a clear
complexion, were fully as effective as the most approved type
of manly beauty. Still under thirty, he was just beginning
to make himself a name. A play of his had recently been
produced with success by the Brooklyn Corporation: one of
his detective novels had made something of a hit, and his
personal popularity was helping him to win rapid
recognition for his undoubted talent as a writer. Moreover, his
guardian, Lucas, was a big figure in the dramatic and literary
world, knew everybody who was worth knowing, and had a
high opinion of the ability of his ward.</p>

<p>It was obvious that Ellery was in love with Joan. Few
men had less power of concealing what was in them, and
everybody in the Brooklyn circle, except Sir Vernon himself,
was well aware that Ellery thought the world of Joan, and
more than suspected that she thought the world of him. Of
course, the theory could not be mentioned in Prinsep’s
presence; but, when he was not there, the situation was freely
discussed. George Brooklyn and his wife always maintained
that, even if Joan did not marry Ellery, she would certainly
not marry Prinsep. Carter Woodman, Sir Vernon’s lawyer
as well as his cousin, held firmly to the opposite opinion, and
often hinted that Sir Vernon’s will would settle the question
in Prinsep’s favour; but then, as George said, Woodman was
a lawyer and his mind naturally ran on the marriage
settlements rather than the marriage itself.</p>

<p>The Brooklyns were neither particularly united nor
particularly quarrelsome, in their own family circles. They
had their bickerings and their mutual dislikes to about the
average extent; but more than the normal amount of family
solidarity had manifested itself in their dealings with the
outer world. Two “outsiders,” Lucas and Ellery, were indeed
recognised almost as members of the family; and, on the
other hand, one black sheep, Sir Vernon’s brother Walter, had
been driven forth and refused further recognition. For the
rest, they stuck together, and accepted for the most part
unquestioningly Sir Vernon’s often tyrannical, but usually
benevolent, authority. If Joan had been a real Brooklyn,
George would hardly have been so confident that she would
not marry Prinsep.</p>

<p>But Joan was not really a Brooklyn at all. She was the
step-daughter of Walter, who had for a time retrieved his
fallen fortunes, fallen through his own fault, by marrying the
rich widow of Cowper, the “coffee king.” The widow had
then obligingly died, and Walter Brooklyn had lost no time
in spending her money, including the large sum left in trust
for Joan by her mother. But it was not this, so much as
Walter’s manner of life, that had caused Joan, at twenty-one,
to say that she would live with him no longer. Sir Vernon,
to whom she was strongly attached, had then offered her a
home, and for five years she had been in fact mistress of his
house, and hostess at his lavish entertainment of his theatrical
friends. From the first Sir Vernon had set his heart on her
marrying his nephew, John Prinsep, who was ten years her
senior. But Joan was a young woman with a will of her
own; and for five years she had resisted the combined
pressure of Sir Vernon and of John Prinsep himself, without any
success in persuading either Sir Vernon to give up the idea,
or Prinsep of the hopelessness of his suit. Prinsep
persisted in believing that she would “come round,” though of
late her growing friendship with Ellery had made him more
anxious to secure her consent to a definite engagement.</p>

<p>Ordinarily, Prinsep had a way of scowling when he saw
Joan and Ellery together; but to-night he seemed without
a care as he came up to Joan and invited her to lead the way
indoors. Dinner was already served; and Sir Vernon with
Lucas was waiting for them all to come in.</p>

<p>There, in the great Board Room of the Corporation, they
offered, one by one, their congratulations to the old man. An
enemy had once said of Sir Vernon Brooklyn that he was the
finest stage gentleman in Europe—both on and off the stage.
The saying was unjust, but there was enough of truth in it
to sting. Sir Vernon was a little apt to act off the stage; and
the habit had perhaps grown on him since his retirement.
To-night, with his fine silver hair and keen, well-cut features,
he was very much the gentleman, dispensing noble hospitality
with just too marked a sense of its magnificence. But it was
Sir Vernon’s day, and his guests were there to do his will, to
draw him out into reminiscence, to enhance his sense of having
made the most of life’s chances, and of being sure to leave
behind him those who would carry on the great tradition.
The talk turned to the building of the Piccadilly Theatre.
The old man told them how, from the first days of his
success, he had made up his mind to build himself the finest
theatre in London. From the first he had his eye on the
site of Liskeard House; and it had taken him twenty years
to persuade the Liskeards, impoverished as they were, to sell
it for such a purpose. At last he had secured the site, and
then again his foresight had been rewarded. Not for
nothing had he paid for George Brooklyn’s training as an architect,
based on the lad’s own bent, and given him the opportunity
to study playhouse architecture in every quarter of the globe.
The Piccadilly Theatre was not only George Brooklyn’s
masterpiece: it was, structurally, acoustically, visually, for
comfort, in short in every way, the finest theatre in the world. It
was also the best paying theatre. And, the old man said, if in
his day he had been the finest actor, so was George’s wife still
the finest actress, if only she would not waste on domesticity
the gift that was meant for mankind. For Mrs. George
Brooklyn, as Isabelle Raven, had been the star of the
Piccadilly Theatre until she had married its designer and quitted
the stage, sorely against Sir Vernon’s will.</p>

<p>Sir Vernon was in his best form; and the talk, led by
him, was rapid and, at times, brilliant. But there was at
least one of those present to whom it made no appeal; for
Joan Cowper was painfully anxious as to the result of Lucas’s
interview with Sir Vernon. Several times she caught his
eye; but, although he smiled at her down the table, his look
brought her no reassurance. At last, when the servants had
withdrawn after the last course, Joan rose, purposing to lead
the ladies to the drawing-room. But Sir Vernon waved her
back to her seat, saying that, before they left the table, there
was something which he wanted them all to hear. Clearly
there was nothing for it but to wait; but Joan made up her
mind that, if Sir Vernon spoke of her publicly as engaged to
Prinsep, not even the spoiling of his birthday party should
stop her from speaking her mind.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
