<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III: Murder</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">III</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Murder</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>John Prinsep was a man who valued punctuality and cultivated regular habits, both in himself and in others. At 10:15 punctually each night a servant came to him to collect any late letters for the post. Thereafter, unless some visitor had to be shown up, he was left undisturbed, and no one entered his flat on the second floor of Liskeard House until the next morning. The servants, who slept on the floor above, had access to it by a staircase of their own, and did not need to pass through Prinsep‚Äôs quarters.</p>
			<p>No less regular were the arrangements for the morning. At eight o‚Äôclock precisely, Prinsep‚Äôs valet called him, bringing the morning papers and letters and a cup of tea. At the same time, other servants began the work of dusting and cleaning the flat, a long suite of rooms running the whole length of the house. Prinsep‚Äôs bedroom, opening out of his study, and accessible also from the end of the long corridor, was a pleasant room looking out over the old garden towards the back of the theatre.</p>
			<p>On the morning after the birthday dinner, Prinsep‚Äôs valet approached the bedroom door with some trepidation, for he had overslept himself and was at least five minutes late‚ÅÝ‚Äîan offence which his master would not readily forgive. Repeated knocks bringing no reply, Morgan slipped into the room, only to find that the bed had not been slept in, and that there was no sign that Prinsep had been there at all since he had dressed for dinner on the previous evening. Closing the door, Morgan walked back along the corridor to consult his fellow-servants. He found Winter, who was superintending the dusting of the drawing-room.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you see the master last night?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>Winter answered with a nod, and added, ‚ÄúYes, I took some letters from him for the post as usual.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid he say anything about going out? His bed has not been slept in, and he‚Äôs not in his room this morning.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Winter replied that Prinsep had said nothing, and the two men walked down the corridor together to take a look round.</p>
			<p>At this moment there came a terrible scream from the study, and a scared maidservant came running out straight into Morgan‚Äôs arms. ‚ÄúOh, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMorgan‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe master,‚Äù she sobbed, ‚ÄúI‚Äôm sure he‚Äôs dead.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The two menservants made all haste into the study. There, stretched on the floor beside his writing-table lay John Prinsep. A glance told them that he was dead, and showed the apparent cause in a knife, the handle of which protruded from his chest, just about the region of the heart. Morgan went down on his knees beside the body, and felt the pulse. ‚ÄúGet out quick,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúand stop those girls from kicking up a row. He‚Äôs dead, right enough.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Morgan‚Äôs voice was agitated, indeed; but it hardly showed the grief that might have been expected in an exemplary valet mourning for the death of his master. Winter made no reply, but left the room to quiet the servants. Then he came back and telephoned first for the police and then for the dead man‚Äôs doctor, who promised to be with them inside of half an hour. As he sat at the telephone he warned Morgan. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt disturb a thing. If we‚Äôre not careful one of us may get run in for this job.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Morgan meanwhile had satisfied himself beyond a doubt that Prinsep was dead. Leaving the body he turned to Winter. ‚ÄúSomeone will have to tell Miss Joan, I suppose. I‚Äôll go and find her maid. Meanwhile you stay on guard here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Winter‚Äôs guard was not for long. In less than ten minutes Morgan returned. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve seen Miss Joan,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúand she‚Äôs gone to tell Sir Vernon. Here are the police coming upstairs.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The telephone message had, by a lucky accident, found Inspector Blaikie already at Vine Street, and it was he, with two constables and a sergeant, who had come round to the house at once. The constables remained downstairs, while he and the sergeant made a preliminary examination. Winter told him that nothing had been disturbed, except that they had touched the body in order to make sure that Prinsep was dead, and used the telephone to communicate with the doctor and the police.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo doubt about his being dead,‚Äù said Inspector Blaikie, after a brief examination of the body. ‚ÄúDead some hours, so far as I can see. And no doubt about the cause of death, either‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîand he pointed to the knife still in the body. ‚ÄúHas either of you ever seen that knife before?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Both Winter and Morgan took a good look at the shaft, but disclaimed ever having seen the knife. ‚ÄúIt wasn‚Äôt his‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI can tell you that,‚Äù said Morgan. ‚ÄúI know everything he had in the study, and I‚Äôm dead sure it wasn‚Äôt here yesterday.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHallo,‚Äù said the inspector suddenly, ‚Äúthis is curious. There‚Äôs a mark on the back of the head that shows he must have been struck a heavy blow. It might have killed him by itself‚ÅÝ‚Äîmust have stunned him, I should say. Well, we‚Äôll leave that for the doctors.‚Äù So saying, the inspector got up from his knees and began to make a minute examination of the room. ‚ÄúHere, you two,‚Äù he said to Morgan and Winter, ‚Äúclear out of here for the present, and stay in the next room till I send for you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Inspector Blaikie was a careful man. Everything in the room was rapidly submitted to a detailed examination, the results of which the sergeant wrote down as his superior dictated them. They were neither surprisingly rich nor surprisingly meagre. Of fingermarks there were plenty, but these might well prove to be those of Prinsep himself, or of other persons whose presence in the room was quite natural. Identifiable footmarks there were none.</p>
			<p>Robbery, unless of some special object, did not appear to have been the motive of the murderer. Considerable sums of money were in the drawers of Prinsep‚Äôs desk; but neither these nor the other contents of the drawers seemed to have been in any way disturbed. A safe stood unopened in a corner of the room. The dead man‚Äôs watch and other valuables had been left intact upon him. Either the murderer had left in great haste without accomplishing his purpose, or that purpose did not include robbery of any ordinary kind.</p>
			<p>Inspector Blaikie directed his special attention to the papers lying on the dead man‚Äôs desk, which he seemed to have been working upon when he was disturbed. These, it did not take the inspector long to discover, related to the financial affairs of Walter Brooklyn who, as he soon ascertained later by a few questions, was the brother of Sir Vernon, a man about town of shady reputation, and known to be head over ears in debt. The papers seemed to contain some sort of abstract statement of his liabilities, with a series of letters from him to Sir Vernon asking for financial assistance.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúH‚Äôm,‚Äù said the inspector to himself, ‚Äúthese may easily have a bearing on the case.‚Äù</p>
			<p>But there were other interesting discoveries to come. The inspector was now informed that the doctor had arrived. He ordered that he should be shown up immediately, and suspended his examination of the room to greet the newcomer. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝManton had been for some years the dead man‚Äôs medical adviser; but no other member of the Brooklyn family had been under his care. Something in common with him had perhaps caused Prinsep to forsake the staid family physician in his favour; but this hardly appeared on the surface. Prinsep was heavily built and sullen in expression: <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝManton was slim built and rather jaunty, with a habit of wearing clothes far less funereal than the normal etiquette of the medical profession seems to dictate. He entered now, flung a rapid and seemingly quite cheerful ‚ÄúGood morning, inspector‚ÅÝ‚Äîbad business this, I hear,‚Äù to Blaikie, and went at once down on his knees beside the body. ‚ÄúBad business‚ÅÝ‚Äîbad business,‚Äù he continued to repeat to himself, in a perfectly cheerful tone of voice, as he made his preliminary examination. He made a noise between his teeth as he touched the hilt of the knife still embedded in Prinsep‚Äôs chest: then, as he saw the contusion on the back of the head, he said ‚ÄúH‚Äôm, h‚Äôm.‚Äù Then he relapsed into silence, which he broke a moment later by whistling a tune softly to himself.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell,‚Äù said the inspector, ‚Äúwhat‚Äôs the report?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The doctor made no answer for a moment. Then he said, ‚ÄúHave him carried into the bedroom. I want to make a fuller examination. I‚Äôll talk to you when I‚Äôve done.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery well,‚Äù said the inspector; and he went to the door and called to the sergeant to bring up the two constables to move the body. Heavily they marched into the room, lifted up the dead man, and bore him away, the doctor following. But, as they raised the body from the floor, an interesting object came to light. Underneath John Prinsep‚Äôs body had lain a crumpled pocket-handkerchief. The inspector pounced upon it. In the corner was plainly marked the name of George Brooklyn.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôs George Brooklyn?‚Äù Inspector Blaikie called out to the doctor in the adjoining room. The doctor came to the door, and saw the handkerchief in the inspector‚Äôs hand. ‚ÄúHallo, what‚Äôs that you‚Äôve got?‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúGeorge Brooklyn is Prinsep‚Äôs cousin, old Sir Vernon‚Äôs other nephew. An architect, I believe, by profession.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThanks. This appears to be his handkerchief,‚Äù the inspector answered. ‚ÄúIt was under the body.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúH‚Äôm. Well, that‚Äôs none of my business,‚Äù said the doctor, and turned back into the bedroom.</p>
			<p>There, a minute or two later, Inspector Blaikie followed him, leaving the sergeant on guard in the room where the tragedy had occurred. But first he carefully packed up and transferred to his handbag the handkerchief, the papers from the desk, and certain other spoils of his search.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, what do you make of it now?‚Äù he asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝManton.</p>
			<p>The doctor had by this time drawn the knife from the wound, and this he now handed silently to the inspector, who examined it curiously, felt its edge, and finally wrapped it up and put it away in his bag with the rest of his findings. Then he turned again to the doctor.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA shocking business, inspector,‚Äù said the latter, still with his curiously cheerful air, ‚Äúand, I may add, rather an odd one. The man was not killed with the knife, and the knife wound has not actually touched any vital part. He was killed, I have no doubt, by the blow on the back of the head‚ÅÝ‚Äîa far easier form of murder for anyone who is not an expert. It was a savage blow. The wound in the chest, I have little hesitation in saying, was inflicted subsequently, probably when the man was already dead. As I say, it would not have killed him, and there are also indications that it was inflicted after death‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe comparative absence of bleeding and the general condition of the wound, for example.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúH‚Äôm, you say the man was killed with a knock on the head, and the assassin then stabbed him in order to make doubly sure.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPardon me, inspector, I say nothing of the sort. I say that the blow on the back of the head was the cause of death, and that the knife wound was, in all probability, subsequent. Anything about assassins and their motives and methods is your business and not mine.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI accept the correction,‚Äù said the inspector, smiling. ‚ÄúBut the inference seems practically certain. Why else should the murderer have stabbed a dead man?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI have no theory, inspector. I simply give you the medical evidence, and leave you to draw the inferences for yourself.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut perhaps you can give me some valuable information. I believe you were <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPrinsep‚Äôs doctor.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, and I think I may say a personal friend.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat sort of man was he? Anything wrong, physically?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo; there ought to have been, from the way he used his body. But he had the constitution of an ox. He limped, owing to an accident some years ago. But otherwise‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, as healthy as you like.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd, apart from that, what was he like?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI got on well with him; but there were many who did not. A tough customer, hard in business and not ready in making friends.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat terms was he on with his family‚ÅÝ‚Äîwith <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge Brooklyn, for instance?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCome now, inspector, this is hardly fair. I barely know George Brooklyn. I don‚Äôt think he and Prinsep liked each other; but there had been no quarrel so far as I know. I suppose you are thinking of the handkerchief.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI have to think of these things.‚Äù</p>
			<p>While he was speaking the inspector opened his bag and took out the knife again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA curious knife this,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúPerhaps you can tell me whether it is a surgical instrument.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot so curious, when you know what it is. I do happen to know, though it has nothing to do with my profession. My son is a mechanical draughtsman, and he has several. Knives of this type are sold by most firms which supply architects‚Äô and draughtsmen‚Äôs materials.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúH‚Äôm, what did you say was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge Brooklyn‚Äôs profession?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI believe he is an architect, and a very promising one.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat, doctor, may make this knife a most valuable clue.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI do not choose to consider it in that light. Clues are not my affair, I am glad to say.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, they are my business, and I shall certainly have to make further inquiries about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge Brooklyn.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, inquire away,‚Äù said the doctor. ‚ÄúBut I fancy you will find George Brooklyn quite above suspicion.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The inspector‚Äôs eyes showed, just for an instant, a dangerous gleam. Then, ‚ÄúAnd is there anything else you can tell me?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNothing else, I think,‚Äù said the doctor. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm afraid you won‚Äôt find it much of a clue.‚Äù And with that and a few words more about the necessary inquest, the doctor took his leave.</p>
			<p>The inspector went back into the study. ‚ÄúAsk those two men who are waiting to step in here, will you?‚Äù he said to the sergeant. Morgan and Winter were duly brought in. ‚ÄúSergeant, while I talk to these two men, I want you to make a thorough examination of the rest of the house. Leave nothing to chance. House and garden, I mean. And make me a sketch plan of the whole place while you‚Äôre about it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow,‚Äù said the inspector, when the sergeant had withdrawn, ‚Äúthere are a number of questions I want to ask you. First, who, as far as you know, was the last person to see the deceased alive? Which of you was in charge of the front door last night?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI was, sir,‚Äù replied Winter.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, then,‚Äù said the inspector, ‚ÄúI will begin with you. Morgan can go back to the other room for the present, and I will send for him when I want him. Now, when did you yourself last see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPrinsep?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAt 10:30 last night, sir, when I went up to fetch his letters for the post.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you notice anything unusual, or did he make any remark?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe just gave me the letters. He didn‚Äôt say anything. He seemed in a bad temper, but that was nothing out of the ordinary.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see. There was nothing remarkable. Do you know if anyone saw him after you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir. At about a quarter to eleven <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge Brooklyn called and asked for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPrinsep. I told him I thought <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPrinsep was in, and he said he would find his own way up.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd do you know when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge Brooklyn came out?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, I happened to catch sight of him crossing the hall to the front door about three-quarters of an hour later‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomewhere about half-past eleven. We were in the dining-room clearing up, and several of us saw him go out.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou say ‚Äòclearing up.‚Äô Had there been some entertainment in the house last night?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir. It was Sir Vernon Brooklyn‚Äôs family party. His seventieth birthday, sir. Besides those in the house there were <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬Ýand <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCarter Woodman, sir‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe solicitor, who is also Sir Vernon‚Äôs cousin‚ÅÝ‚Äîand his wife, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝLucas‚ÅÝ‚Äîand, yes, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEllery.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhen did they leave?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThey all left a minute or two after ten o‚Äôclock. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬Ýand <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge and the Woodmans are staying at the Cunningham, sir, and they walked. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝLucas‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe playwriter, sir‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe went off in his car to Hampstead, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEllery, he walked off in a great hurry.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo far as you know, no one besides <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge Brooklyn saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPrinsep after 10:15.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo. Of course, Miss Joan or Miss Woodman or Sir Vernon may have seen him without my knowing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOne more question. Do you recognise this walking-stick?‚Äù The inspector had found this lying on the floor of the room. It might be Prinsep‚Äôs; but it was best to make sure.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, sir. I‚Äôve never seen it to my knowledge. But it may have been <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPrinsep‚Äôs, for all that. He had quite a number.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôve no idea, then, whose it was?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, sir. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPrinsep used to collect walking-sticks. He was always bringing new ones home.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow, I want to ask you another question. You see this knife‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe one that was sticking out of the body. Have you ever seen it before?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Winter‚Äôs manner showed some hesitation. At length he said, ‚ÄúNo, I can‚Äôt say I have. I mean, it wasn‚Äôt here to my knowledge yesterday.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou seem to hesitate in answering. It‚Äôs a curious sort of knife. Surely you would remember if you had seen it. Or have you seen one like it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMust I answer that question, sir? You see, I‚Äôm not at all sure it was the same.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course you must answer. It is your business to give the police all the help you can in discovering the murderer.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, sir, all I meant was that I‚Äôd often seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGeorge Brooklyn using that sort of knife when he was doing his work‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôs an architect‚ÅÝ‚Äîdown at Fittleworth. He used to bring his work down when he came to stay with Sir Vernon, and I know he had a knife like that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see. But you can‚Äôt say whether this is his.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo. It might be; but all I know is it‚Äôs the same pattern.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd that‚Äôs all you can tell me, is it?‚Äù Winter said nothing, and the inspector added, ‚ÄúVery well, that will do. Now I want to ask Morgan a few questions.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Morgan had little light to throw upon the tragedy. He had been out all the previous evening, after helping his master to dress for dinner, when he had noticed nothing extraordinary. He had come back soon after 11:30, and had gone straight to bed. Where had he been? He had spent the evening with friends at Hammersmith, had come back by the Tube with two friends, who had only left him at the door of the house. There he had met Winter and had gone upstairs with him to bed.</p>
			<p>Asked if he knew the walking-stick, he was quite sure that it was not his master‚Äôs, and that it had not been in the room on the previous day. About the knife he knew nothing, except that he had never seen it, or one like it, before.</p>
			<p>The inspector had just finished his examination of Morgan when he was startled by a shout from the garden. Throwing up the window, he called to a constable who was running towards the house. The man‚Äôs answer was to ask him to come as quickly as possible. Calling another constable to keep guard in the study, Inspector Blaikie hastened to the garden, directed by Morgan to a private stairway which led directly to it from the back of the house. This, Morgan informed him, was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPrinsep‚Äôs usual way of getting into the garden, and thence, by the private covered way, into the Piccadilly Theatre itself.</p>
			<p>But before inspector Blaikie left the study, he did one thing. He phoned through to Scotland Yard, and made arrangements for the immediate arrest of George Brooklyn, who was probably to be found at the Cunningham Hotel.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
