<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h2><p epub:type="title">On the Tiles</p></hgroup>

<p>Inspector Blaikie had received very definite
instructions from the superintendent as to the course of
investigation which he was to follow up. He was to find out all he
could about Woodman’s financial circumstances, and he was
to seek for proof that Woodman had been in possession of
Walter Brooklyn’s walking-stick. Side by side with this line
of investigation, he had intended to look further into his own
private suspicions of Ellery; but these, which had been almost
removed by his last talk with the superintendent, were finally
dispelled by a further talk with William Gloucester.
Ellery’s alibi was good enough: Carter Woodman was the man whose
every concern he must scrutinize if he would find the murderer.</p>

<p>It did not take the inspector long to prove beyond doubt
that Woodman was in a state of serious financial
embarrassment. Discreet inquiries in the city showed that he had been
speculating heavily in oil shares, and that he stood to lose a
large sum on the falling prices of the shares which he had
contracted to buy. There was nothing to show directly that
he had staked his clients’, as well as his own, money on the
fate of his dealings; but the inspector could make a shrewd
guess at the state of his affairs. In all probability, he must
either raise money at once, or else face ignominious collapse,
and perhaps worse. It was definite that he had been putting
off his creditors with promises to pay in the near future, and
plunging meanwhile into more serious difficulties in the
attempt to extricate himself.</p>

<p>So far, so good; but the other matter gave the inspector
far more serious trouble. Try as he would, he could
get no clue that would tell him whether Walter Brooklyn
had really left his walking-stick in Carter Woodman’s office.
His first thought had been to see Woodman’s confidential
clerk, and to find out, if possible without putting Woodman
on his guard, what the man might know. He had scraped
an acquaintance with Moorman in the course of his
investigations, and had several times talked to him about the case.
Moorman, he was fairly well convinced, had not the least
suspicion of his employer’s guilt, and the inspector was sure
that he had said nothing to make him suspect. Indeed, he
could hardly have done so; for only since he last saw the
man had he himself begun to suspect Woodman.</p>

<p>Now, accordingly, Inspector Blaikie, watching for an
opportunity when he was certain that Carter Woodman was not
in his office, went to see Moorman. He asked for Woodman,
and, receiving the answer that he was out, fell easily into
conversation with the old clerk. It was quite casually that
he asked after a while, “By the way, Walter Brooklyn was
here on the day of the murders. You don’t happen to
remember whether he had his walking-stick with him, do you?”</p>

<p>Moorman looked at him sharply, as if he realised that there
was a purpose in the question. “I’ve no idea,” he said.
“ ’Tisn’t a thing I should notice, one way or the other. I’m
too short-sighted to notice much.”</p>

<p>The inspector tried a little to jog his memory, but with
no result. Moorman either did not remember, or he would
not tell. To ask the young clerk in the vestibule seemed
too dangerous; for to do so would almost certainly be to put
Woodman on his guard. The inspector could only report to
the superintendent that he had failed to trace the stick.</p>

<p>“Look here, Blaikie,” said Superintendent Wilson, “this
will never do. We know perfectly well who committed these
murders, and we’re as far off bringing it home to him as
ever.”</p>

<p>The inspector could only reply that he had done his best.</p>

<p>“Yes; and I’m not blaming you,” his superior rejoined. “But
it won’t do. I see I shall have to take a hand in the game
myself. We must find out about that walking-stick, and
there’s another point I’ve reasoned out to-day. Where’s the
weapon with which Prinsep was killed?”</p>

<p>“Why, you’ve got the club.”</p>

<p>“Yes, yes; but you don’t tell me that the murderer carried
that immense unwieldy thing up two flights of stairs, when
he might easily have been seen. No, Prinsep wasn’t killed
with that club. George Brooklyn was; but it was some other
weapon that killed Prinsep.”</p>

<p>“There’s the knife,” suggested the inspector. “But you
have that too.”</p>

<p>“Really, inspector, you are unusually thick-headed this
morning. The man wasn’t killed with a knife. He was killed
with a blow on the back of the head, delivered with some
heavy blunt instrument. Isn’t that what the doctors said?”</p>

<p>“Quite. If it wasn’t the club, I suppose the murderer
carried the weapon away.”</p>

<p>“I suppose he may have done, as you did not find it. You
are sure there was no object in the room that might have been
used as a weapon.”</p>

<p>“None at all, I think. The stick belonging to Walter
Brooklyn could not have made the wound, I am told⁠—nor any of
the other sticks for that matter. It looked much more like
a case of sand-bagging, now I think of it in this light.”</p>

<p>“Well, inspector, I’m not satisfied, and I feel sure you will
not object if I do a bit of investigation on my own.”</p>

<p>“Are you taking the case out of my hands, sir?”</p>

<p>“No, no. I want you to carry on, and especially to find
out what these young people⁠—Miss Cowper and Ellery⁠—are
doing. There are only two or three points on which I want
to satisfy myself personally.”</p>

<p>“Very well, sir,” said the inspector; and he left
feeling⁠—and looking⁠—more than a little aggrieved.</p>

<p>Superintendent Wilson, in his rare personal appearances in
the work of detection, had one great advantage, he was not
known by sight, even to most of the habitual criminal class.
He had, therefore, on this occasion at least, no need to
disguise himself. He merely went to Carter Woodman’s office as
a prospective client, who had been strongly recommended to
him. He wanted both to have a look at Woodman himself
and to see whether anything more could be got out of
Moorman on the question of the stick.</p>

<p>Woodman was engaged with a client when he arrived,
and he had a favourable chance of making friends with the
old clerk before he was shown into the inner office. He used
his opportunity for that alone, making no attempt to lead the
conversation towards the business on which he had come.
In a very few minutes he was shown into Woodman’s private
office.</p>

<p>Looking his man up and down, he noted, as the inspector
had noted before him, the powerful physique, the straining
vitality, the false geniality of Woodman’s manner. But he
could see also that the man was seriously worried. There
was, for all his appearance of heartiness, a harried look about
him, and he seemed preoccupied as, with an excellent
assumption of business incapacity, his visitor began to unfold a long
story about a lease and a mortgage which he wished to
negotiate. Woodman listened with growing impatience, as the
superintendent meant that he should. At length he
interrupted, saying that the details could be dealt with later. His
visitor was most apologetic⁠—never had a head for business,
but positively must get the matter dealt with that day. He
lived away in the country⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Amos Porter of Sunderling in
Sussex was his description for the nonce⁠—and he would not
be in town again for weeks. Woodman finally suggested that,
as there was other work he must do, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Porter should settle
the details with his clerk⁠—an excellent man of business, who
would be able to tell him all he wanted. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Porter, after
a perfunctory attempt to go on with his explanation to the
principal, agreed; and he was soon back in the other office
with Moorman.</p>

<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Porter had left his hat, coat, and stick in the outer
office when he went in to see Woodman, laying the stick on
a chair and covering it with his coat. His business with
Moorman was soon done, and he crossed the room to get his
things. By a curious accident, while he was struggling into
his coat, he dropped his stick at Moorman’s feet. Moorman
picked it up, but as he was passing it back to its owner, he
started violently and almost dropped it.</p>

<p>“A queer old stick, is it not?” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Porter. “I value
it highly for its associations.”</p>

<p>Moorman peered at him, oddly. “I beg pardon, sir, but
isn’t that the stick a gentleman I know used to carry?”</p>

<p>“No, no. I’ve had this stick for years. I bought it in⁠—let
me see, where did I buy it? Never mind. I had no idea
there was another like it. That is most interesting. May I
ask who uses such a stick?”</p>

<p>“The gentleman’s name is Brooklyn⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter
Brooklyn. He had one very like yours.”</p>

<p>“God bless my soul! Not the fellow whose name has been
in all the papers? Dear me, what was it about? I know
it was in the papers.”</p>

<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn was suspected⁠—wrongly⁠—of murder.”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, I remember now. And you know <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn?
How interesting.”</p>

<p>Moorman lowered his voice. “He was in the office with that
stick on the very day on which the murders were committed.”</p>

<p>“Dear, dear. It is coming back to me. There was
something about the stick in the papers. How odd it should be
like mine.”</p>

<p>“It was found in the room where one of the murders took
place.”</p>

<p>“And you saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn with the stick when he left this
office the same day. Dear me, that must have looked very
bad for him. But he was released, wasn’t he?”</p>

<p>“Yes, the police let him go.”</p>

<p>“And did you give evidence, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Moorman? Did you
have to say you had seen him leave this office with that stick
in his hands? It must be a terrible ordeal to be a
witness⁠—terrible.”</p>

<p>“I didn’t have to give evidence, and in any case I didn’t
see the stick when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooklyn left the office.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I see. He hadn’t the stick with him when he left.
Then, of course, it wouldn’t go so much against him, it being
found. Why, it might have been my stick”⁠—and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Porter
gave a curious high laugh. “Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>⁠—is it Moorman?⁠—thank
you. You’ve told me just what I wanted to know⁠—about
my mortgage. I will write in, sending all the
documents. <em>Good</em>-morning.”</p>

<p>Safely out of earshot and eyeshot of Woodman’s office,
Superintendent Wilson had a quiet laugh. “A little
diplomacy does it,” he said to himself. “Now I know all about the
stick. And next for another little exploration.”</p>

<p>The superintendent’s next visit was paid in his proper
person. Driving to Liskeard House, he asked to be shown
up to Prinsep’s room, where everything was still just as it
had been when the murder was discovered. There he made
a careful examination of the room and all its contents,
seeking for any weapon with which the murder could possibly
have been done. His search was fruitless; and, after a while,
he passed to the window and gazed out thoughtfully into
the garden below. The roof of the antique temple showed
over the intervening trees; but the place where the murder
of George Brooklyn had taken place was completely hidden
by the trees and the bushes growing around them. The
superintendent cast back in his mind to discover whether the
bushes had been searched for possible clues. He assumed that
they had⁠—it was an elementary precaution⁠—but he had best
have a hunt round himself. Something might have been
overlooked. He went down the private staircase into the
garden, and began his search.</p>

<p>Nothing rewarded his efforts, though he spent a good hour
searching; and it was with a puzzled expression that he went
upstairs again to Prinsep’s room, resuming his stand at the
window and gazing out. Suddenly something seemed to catch
his attention. Leaning as far out of the window as he could,
he studied intently what he could see of the roof. “It’s just
a possibility,” he muttered, as he closed the window, and
crossed the room.</p>

<p>What Superintendent Wilson had remarked was that
almost on the level of Prinsep’s window was the roof of that
part of the house which projected over the stable-yard. It
was not near enough for any entry to the room to be effected
by its means; but it was easily within reach of a throw, and
an object cast away upon it would be completely invisible and
safely disposed of until some day, probably distant, when the
roof might need repair. It was an admirable place for the
bestowal of any inconvenient piece of property.</p>

<p>By means of the landing window, the superintendent found
his way without much difficulty out on to the roof, and was
easily able to climb over its gabled side to the flat space in
the centre. And there at last his efforts were rewarded; for on
the roof lay, clearly just where it had been thrown, a small
bag heavily loaded, not with sand, but with small shot⁠—a
deadly weapon. Stuffing the thing into his pocket, the
superintendent climbed back with more difficulty, and shut the window
behind him. He chuckled softly to himself. He had
reasoned aright, and here at last was a clue that had not been
laid to mislead⁠—a real clue that he must make to point straight
at the murderer. He went back to his office to examine his
find at leisure.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
