<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h2><p epub:type="title">A Letter and Its Consequences</p></hgroup>

<p>One of Joan’s duties, during these troublous days, was
to deal with Sir Vernon’s private letters. The
management of the Brooklyn Corporation had passed, for the time
being, into the hands of a subordinate; but there were many
private letters to be read and answered. Ill as he was, Sir
Vernon liked to be consulted about some of these; and Joan
always set aside a few to discuss with him each morning. On
the day following Ellery’s successful investigation at the
Cunningham Hotel, Joan sat opening the letters at breakfast.
Most of them contained little of interest; but there was one,
marked Private, which was clearly of importance. As Joan
read it, she felt that yet another of the clues leading to the
discovery of the murderer had come unexpectedly into her
hands.</p>

<p>The letter was from Sir John Bunnery, the successful
solicitor, well-known in the sporting world as “the bookmaker’s
attorney,” a nickname which he had earned by his long
association with legal cases connected with the Turf. Sir John had
been a friend of Sir Vernon’s in earlier years; but the two men
had quarrelled many years ago, and since then they had seen
nothing of each other. Carter Woodman, however, was, as
Joan knew, a friend of Sir John’s, and she was not surprised
when, glancing down the letter, she read his name.</p>

<p>Sir John Bunnery began by offering his sympathy to an old
friend in the misfortunes which had come upon him, adding
that he hoped their drifting apart of late years would not make
the sympathy less welcome. Then, having said the proper
thing, he came to business. On the previous day, he explained,
a somewhat curious request had come to him from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter
Woodman, who had asked for his help in securing a large loan,
stating that there could be no doubt about the repayment of
the money, as full security could be given that far more than
the sum asked for would be available under the will of Sir
Vernon Brooklyn. He, Carter Woodman, was one of the
beneficiaries under the will, and he was also in a position to offer,
in return for the loan, the joint guarantee of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter
Brooklyn, who had now, in tragic circumstances, become the
principal beneficiary under the will. Woodman stated that he
was Walter Brooklyn’s heir, and that he and Walter were
prepared to make themselves jointly liable for the repayment of
the sum asked for. Sir John said that he would, of course, be
most pleased to assist <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Woodman, who was a personal
friend; but although Woodman had approached him in
confidence, and asked him not to mention the matter even to Sir
Vernon, he had felt it necessary to write equally in confidence to
Sir Vernon in order to ascertain whether Woodman and
Walter Brooklyn were in fact the heirs. Sir Vernon would
understand that he was asking for this information only in
strict confidence, and he⁠—Sir John⁠—would quite accept the
position if the answer was that Sir Vernon did not feel able to
tell him how matters stood. In that case, however, he would
feel compelled to decline to arrange the very large
advance⁠—£60,000⁠—for which Woodman had asked. A hint would be
enough to tell him how he ought to act. Sir John ended with
a repetition of his condolences, and expressed the hope, that,
when Sir Vernon was well enough, their old friendship might
be renewed.</p>

<p>Joan read the letter right through with a feeling of
bewilderment. What could it all mean? Were her stepfather and
Carter Woodman really acting in collusion in an attempt to
raise money in anticipation of Sir Vernon’s death? And, if
they were, what light did their extraordinary proceeding throw
on the murders?</p>

<p>The letter gave Joan a good deal to think about. The
information which Woodman had given to Sir John Bunnery
might, of course, be technically correct. She realised that,
under the existing will, Walter Brooklyn was, now that the two
persons who had stood in his way had been removed, the
principal beneficiary. But he had become so entirely by an
accident, which was certainly no part of the testator’s intention,
and his chance of remaining so depended entirely on Sir
Vernon’s not making a new will in some one else’s favour.
Woodman, of course, might have a good reason for thinking that he
would not do that, even if he were able; but Joan doubted this,
and was more inclined to believe that he was relying on Sir
Vernon’s speedy death without making a new will. Walter
had, in any case, only become the heir after the murders. That
was but a few days ago; and he and Woodman had, Joan
reflected, certainly been quite extraordinarily prompt in trying
to take advantage of the new position. Either they must be
in some terrible financial difficulty, or they must fear the
making of a new will, and hope to raise the money before this
could come about.</p>

<p>What surprised Joan far more were the statements that
Walter had made Carter Woodman his heir. She knew well
that Walter had no love for Woodman; and she at once
realised that he could only have taken such a step in return for a
pecuniary consideration. There was obviously, in Woodman’s
application to Sir John Bunnery, evidence of a very unpleasant
bargain. The whole letter made Joan very angry indeed.</p>

<p>In any case the receipt of the letter could not but
considerably strengthen Joan’s suspicions of Carter Woodman. “Of
course,” she said to herself, “he hoped to raise this money
without our hearing anything about it.” And she could not help
feeling that it looked very much as if he had deliberately
planned the whole thing in order to lay hands on the money.</p>

<p>But, apart from the effect of the letter upon Joan, what was
likely to be its effect on Sir Vernon? She felt that she must
show it to him; and she did not conceal from herself that she
positively wanted him to see it. For she hardly concealed
from herself now her desire, her hope for Ellery’s sake, that
Sir Vernon would alter his will. The effect of Sir John
Bunnery’s letter, she thought, would certainly be to make him very
angry with both Walter Brooklyn and Carter Woodman; and
she felt sure that, ill as he was, Sir Vernon, under the
circumstances, would lose no time in making a new will. Woodman,
indeed, had, she felt, effectively destroyed his chances of
getting the money for the sake of which, if her suspicions were
correct, he had probably done two men to death. Sir John
Bunnery’s breach of confidence had hoisted the engineer with
his own petard.</p>

<p>Taking this letter and one or two others from the heap which
lay before her, Joan went up to Sir Vernon’s room. She read
him the others first, and received his instructions, or rather his
permission to deal with them as she thought best. Then,
without any previous comment, she read him Sir John Bunnery’s
letter, watching his face as she read.</p>

<p>The effect of the news upon him was exactly what she had
expected. He was very angry, and while she was reading he
interjected indignant comments. He was effectively roused;
and, as soon as she had finished reading, he bade her write at
once to Sir John Bunnery, not answering his question directly,
but strongly advising him not to lend the money. “Write at
once,” he said, “and I will sign it myself. The answer must
be sent immediately.”</p>

<p>Joan needed no second invitation. She sat down at once,
and having written the answer, read it through to Sir Vernon,
who signed it. She then gave it to one of the servants, with
instructions that it should be posted immediately. When she
came back into the room, Sir Vernon was sitting up in bed.
He had a pencil in his hand, and was trying to write on the
fly-leaf of a book he had taken from the table beside his bed. As
Joan came to him, he sank back, exhausted by the effort.</p>

<p>“Come here, my dear,” he said. “I shan’t rest now till I’ve
made a new will, and I want you to write it for me. It can be
put into proper legal form later, if there is time.”</p>

<p>“Shall I send for Carter Woodman?” said Joan.</p>

<p>“No, my dear. No more Carter Woodman for me just now.
I shall have to find a new lawyer. But never mind that now.
You write what I tell you.”</p>

<p>Then, slowly and painfully, the old man dictated a new will.
“I have to make it simple,” he said. The new will left Joan
the whole of his fortune, with the request that she should pay
to all persons mentioned in the previous will, and still living,
the sums there left to them, except that no sum should be paid
to Carter Woodman. A further clause appointed Joan and
Henry Lucas joint executors, and a third, an after-thought,
provided for the payment of a small annuity to Helen
Woodman. “There is no need for her to suffer for what he has
done,” said Sir Vernon.</p>

<p>Two of the servants were then called in to witness the will,
and Joan, at Sir Vernon’s command, took it downstairs and had
it placed at once in the office safe of the Brooklyn Corporation.</p>

<p>“I am easier now in my mind,” said the old man, as Joan
returned from her errand. “You will have to carry on the
Brooklyn tradition now, Joan,” he added. Joan took his hand,
and sat by him, and, in a few minutes he fell asleep. Joan sat
by his side for a while. Then she quietly disengaged her hand,
and left him sleeping. He was tired out; but she believed the
exertion had done him good.</p>

<p>In the lounge Joan found Ellery, in a high state of
excitement. “News, darling,” he said. “I have news for you, and
it shows that I was right.”</p>

<p>“I have some news for you, too, my boy. It’s a most
extraordinary thing that has happened. I’m not so sure as I
was that you were wrong.”</p>

<p>“I think my news makes it simply certain I was right.”</p>

<p>“Bob, Sir Vernon has made a new will, cutting out Carter.”</p>

<p>“My dear, you don’t mean to say he suspects?”</p>

<p>“No, of course he doesn’t; but this morning we found out
that Carter and my stepfather are trying⁠—the two of them⁠—to
raise money on the strength of the will.”</p>

<p>“Good Lord, how did you find out that?”</p>

<p>“A letter came to Sir Vernon from Sir John Bunnery, saying
Woodman had approached him in confidence for a loan of sixty
thousand pounds, on the joint security of his and my
stepfather’s expectations. He said my stepfather had made him
his heir.”</p>

<p>“Made whom?”</p>

<p>“Why, Carter. So that he stood to get the money any way.”</p>

<p>Ellery whistled. “My word, the plot thickens. And now
let me tell you my news.”</p>

<p>And so the two lovers exchanged their information. Joan,
in her anger against Carter Woodman, was now a good deal
easier to convince. She admitted at once the force of Ellery’s
evidence. If Woodman had lied, it was not likely that he had
lied for nothing. Her anger for the time prevented her from
realising the full horror of the position; but presently it came
home to her. “Oh, poor Helen,” she said, “what <em>are</em> we to
do? It will break her heart.”</p>

<p>“My dear we must clear this thing up now. We can’t leave
it where it stands. You see that.”</p>

<p>Joan pulled herself together. “Yes, I suppose we have to
go through with it.”</p>

<p>“And find positive proof.”</p>

<p>“I suppose we must go on.”</p>

<p>“We can’t prove it yet, you see,” said Ellery. “But we’ve
made a really good beginning on the job of bringing last
Tuesday’s business home to Woodman, and we mustn’t lose any
time in following up that trail to the end.”</p>

<p>“But how do you propose to follow it up? Haven’t you
done all you can there?”</p>

<p>“No. Don’t you see? We must prove that the man the
servants took for George that night when he went out of this
house was really Carter Woodman.”</p>

<p>“That all sounds very well; but I don’t see how you’re
going to do it.”</p>

<p>“Neither do I; but I mean to have a shot.”</p>

<p>“My dear Bob, let me try. It’s my turn to do something.
I have an idea, and I may be able to find out about it.”</p>

<p>“You’re very mysterious. Won’t you tell me what the idea
is?”</p>

<p>“No, Bob. It may come to nothing; and I’d rather try it
myself first. It won’t take long to find out. You’ve done all
the clever things so far; and I think it’s my turn for a change.”</p>

<p>“Right you are, Joan. I only hope it’s a good ’un.”</p>

<p>“I hope it is; but it’s only a chance. You come back here
to-night and I’ll tell you. Besides, I want an excuse for
seeing you again.”</p>

<p>“Darling,” said Ellery, and their conversation for the next
few minutes can be left to the experienced imagination of the
reader.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
