<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h2><p epub:type="title">The Lie of the Land</p></hgroup>

<p>When Joan and Ellery determined upon their course of
action, Ellery’s immediate part was to make a thorough
investigation of Carter Woodman’s movements. Apparently
he had a perfect alibi—as good as Ellery’s own—absolving
him of all part in the events of the fatal Tuesday night.
Indeed, in the eyes of the law he had scarcely needed an alibi, for
nothing had occurred to throw any real suspicion upon him.
Ellery suspected him nevertheless almost to certainty; but he
admitted to himself that even now his suspicion was based on
what others would regard as no more than a guess. Tuesday,
therefore, seemed the best starting-point; for if Woodman’s alibi
for that occasion held good, that would finish the matter,
and prove that the whole edifice of suppositions which Ellery
had built up was founded on nothing.</p>

<p>It was easy enough for Ellery to walk into the Cunningham
Hotel, where he was already known, under pretext of a visit to
Marian Brooklyn. But, having made his entry, he did not
proceed to the suite of rooms which she shared with the
Woodmans. His object was to explore the hotel in order to
discover whether there was in fact, as the porter and the manager
had stated to Inspector Blaikie, only one possible exit. The
porter, who had been at the door from ten o’clock onwards
through the night had been quite certain that Woodman had
not gone out that way. He had come in with his wife and
Mrs. Brooklyn at about a quarter past ten, and he had not
returned to the entrance hall until about a quarter to twelve,
when he had given the porter his late letters for the post, and
had gone straight upstairs again. That seemed clear enough;
for the porter was very positive that Woodman had not gone
out at any time during the evening.</p>

<p>There was, the manager had told the police, another exit, of
course, for the hotel servants. But the only way to this from
the club quarters lay through the great kitchen, and it would
be quite impossible for a guest to leave by this way without
being observed. Ellery had chosen eleven o’clock at night for
his visit to the hotel, and meeting the manager, whom he knew,
he asked to be shown into the kitchens. The management was
excessively proud of these, and made a regular show of them
to its guests. The manager readily agreed to take him round,
and even a cursory inspection was enough to show Ellery that,
even at that hour in the evening, no guest could possibly have
left by the servant’s exit without being seen by at least half a
dozen persons. The preparation of theatre suppers was in full
swing, and the kitchens were alive with chefs and waiters at
least until midnight.</p>

<p>Leaving the manager, as if he were going up to the
Woodmans’ apartment, Ellery resumed his prowl. On the ground
floor he speedily discovered there was no possible means of exit
except the main door. There remained the basement, occupied
mainly by a vast grill room which was closed at ten o’clock.
Ellery descended the stairs, and pushed open the grill room
door communicating with the hotel. The place was in
darkness and, without turning on the light, he made a tour of the
huge room. At the far end were cloak rooms and another
flight of stairs communicating with the street. So far it would
be fully possible for a guest to make his way without
attracting attention. Ellery went up the far stairs, and approached
the door leading from the grill room to the street. It was
heavily barred and bolted, as well as locked. But the key
was in the lock, and there seemed to be nothing to prevent
the bolts from being withdrawn from the inside. As quietly as
he could Ellery took down the bars, slid back the bolts, and
unlocked the door. He stood, not in the street, but in a
small outer hall with another locked door in front of him.
This door also could be undone from the inside, and, opening it
cautiously, Ellery found himself looking out into St. John’s
Street. He had established the fact that it was possible at
night for a guest to leave the Cunningham Hotel unobserved.
Quietly he re-locked the doors and slid back the well-oiled
bolts and bars, surprised for the second time to find how little
noise his operations made.</p>

<p>Woodman, then, could have both left and returned to the
hotel without being seen. But had he? The very lack of
possible observers seemed to make it impossible to prove the
case either for or against him. If no one had seen Ellery make
his investigations—and as he returned to the ground floor he
was certain that no one had noticed him, at least until he
reached the top of the basement stairs—why should any one
have seen Carter Woodman when he had followed the same
route? The effect of Ellery’s investigations was to make
Woodman’s alibi insecure. But it afforded absolutely no
positive evidence of his guilt.</p>

<p>Still, it was something to have shown that the alibi was
not conclusive, and Ellery was fairly well pleased with the
result of his visit. But he had not yet done. According to
Woodman’s story, he had written his letters in a small and
little used writing-room on the first floor, at the opposite end
of the hotel from his own rooms, but quite near the basement
stairs, to which another small flight of stairs led directly from
the first floor almost from the writing-room door. Ellery went
into the writing-room and found it deserted. He remembered
that Woodman had stated that he had had it to himself
throughout the time he had spent there.</p>

<p>Ellery had no definite idea that the writing-room would
yield a clue, but he thought that he might as well have a look
round. He glanced at the blotting pads which lay on each
table, only to see that the blotting paper was evidently changed
very frequently. But, picking up one of the blotters he
discovered that, while the top sheet was practically clean, the
old used sheets of blotting paper had been left underneath.
Rapidly he examined every sheet. On several he saw marks
of Carter Woodman’s writing, and of his large bold signature.
This, however, showed only that Woodman often used the
room. So far it bore out his story. The pads bore
impressions of several other handwritings; but only one other
recurred frequently. Ellery was able to make out the signature
by holding the paper up to the light. The writing was
curious and quite unmistakable. The name of the writer was
Ba Pu—evidently an Oriental.</p>

<p>Ellery had an idea. It was a chance and no more; but he
made up his mind to see Ba Pu, if he was still in the hotel,
and to put a few questions. Returning to the hall he asked
the porter the number of his room.</p>

<p>“Oh, you mean the Burmese gentleman,” said the porter.
“He has a suite on the first floor. His sitting-room is No.
17. He came in only a few minutes ago.”</p>

<p>Ellery made his way to No. 17 and knocked. The Burmese—a
small, dark-skinned man with curious twinkling little eyes
and quick movements—was in his room and received him with
ready courtesy. Ellery presented his card and apologised for
intruding upon him.</p>

<p>“Oh, no,” said the Burmese. “You not intrude. Very
please.”</p>

<p>“You may think it very strange of me,” said Ellery, “but
may I ask you a question without explaining fully why I ask
it? It is on a matter of real importance.”</p>

<p>“Ask. Yes,” said the Burmese. “I help if I can.” He
spoke English quickly and jerkily, but he evidently understood
the language well. “I very glad meet you, Mr. Ellery. I
Burmese, come here study the British conditions. Go back
Burma tell my people all about this country. You help me.
I help you.”</p>

<p>“Then that is a bargain, and I can ask you my question
at once. Did you use the writing-room opposite here at any
time on the evening of Tuesday, the 17th of this month?”</p>

<p>“Why, that the very day I come here. Yes, I use him that
night. I came here study your conditions. I want meet all
your famous men. I go there write letters ask them meet
me. I write your Mr. Bernard Shaw, your Mr. Wells, your
Mr. Arnold Bennett.”</p>

<p>Ellery interrupted. “Can you tell me at what time that
evening you were in the writing-room?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I tell you. I come here to stay. Evening I wish
write letters. I wish at once to meet your famous men. I go
to writing-room door. I peep in. I see gentleman there,
writing. He not notice me; but I shy. I steal away.”</p>

<p>“What time was that?”</p>

<p>“Eleven by the clock—no earlier. It was what you call
eleven less a quarter.”</p>

<p>“I see, about 10.45.”</p>

<p>“Yes. I go back to my room and I wait. I leave door
open and soon I see gentleman come out of writing-room and
go downstairs. Then I go in. I write my letters.”</p>

<p>“Do you know when that was?”</p>

<p>“I go back to writing-room a few minutes after I go back
to my room. About eleven of the clock—it was then.”</p>

<p>“And how long did you stay there?”</p>

<p>“I stay there long time—what you call the three-quarters
of hour, perhaps.”</p>

<p>“And then you came back to your room?”</p>

<p>“Yes. I come back here.”</p>

<p>“You did not see the gentleman who was in the
writing-room again.”</p>

<p>“Yes, I see him. He come upstairs there, outside my door,
just after I get back to my room.”</p>

<p>“You left the door open then.”</p>

<p>“Yes. There was no air. It is what you call stuffy here.
I see him go into writing-room.”</p>

<p>“And that was the last you saw of him?”</p>

<p>“Yes. But he stay in hotel. I see him later—days
later—often times.”</p>

<p>“Then you would recognise him if you saw him. Is this
he?” and Ellery passed a photograph of Carter Woodman to
the Burmese.</p>

<p>“Yes, that he.” And then the Burmese smiled blandly and
added, “And now you tell me why you wish know this.”</p>

<p>“I would rather not tell you just yet, Mr. Pu, if you will
forgive me. All I can say is that what you have told me
affects a man’s life.”</p>

<p>“You not want to tell me, you not tell me. But you help
me get interview with Mr. Bernard Shaw. I help you. You
help me. See?”</p>

<p>Ellery promised his good offices—for what they were worth.</p>

<p>“And Mr. H. G. Wells?”</p>

<p>Ellery again promised with rather more hesitation, to do
what he could.</p>

<p>“And Mr. Bennett?”</p>

<p>This time Ellery, foreseeing further additions to the list,
suggested that he should come back and have another talk
with Mr. Pu in a day or two. He would certainly do
anything possible to help him.</p>

<p>“And Mr. Bertrand Russell?” the Burmese was saying, as
Ellery managed to talk himself out of the room.</p>

<p>Here at last, Ellery said to himself, as he left the hotel,
was proof, proof positive, even all but certainty. Woodman
had lied about his doings on Tuesday evening, and his alibi
was a fake. At the time when he had said that he was writing
letters in the small writing-room he was really somewhere else.
He had left the writing-room at a few minutes before eleven,
and he had only returned to it, by the stairs which led directly
to the basement, about three-quarters of an hour later. The
inference was obvious—to Ellery at least. But his new
certainty that Woodman was the criminal was still of course
very far from complete demonstration. A man might lie
about his movements, and still not be a murderer. What
should the next step be? He would see Joan, and convince
her now that his suspicions had been rightly directed. She
could hardly still doubt.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
