<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2><p epub:type="title">Plain as a Pikestaff</p></hgroup>

<p>Inspector Blaikie, when he had done all that he
could on the scene of the double crime, went at once to
report to his superiors and to hold a consultation at Scotland
Yard. The officer to whom he was immediately responsible
was the celebrated Superintendent Wilson⁠—“the Professor,”
as his colleagues called him, in allusion to his scholarly habits
and his pre-eminently intellectualist way of reasoning out
the solution of his cases. “The Professor,” in his earlier
days as Inspector Wilson, had patiently found his way to
the heart of a good many murder mysteries by thinking them
out as logical problems. He had made his name by solving
the great “Antedated Murder Mystery,” when every one
else had been hopelessly in fault; and a man’s life and a
great fortune had both depended on his skill in reasoning
out the truth. He was a small man, with quick, nervous
movements, and a curious way of closing his eyes and holding
up his hands before him with the tips of his fingers pressed
tightly together when he was discussing a case. He was
reputed to have but a scant respect for most of his colleagues
at Scotland Yard; but he made an exception in favour of
Inspector Blaikie, whose pertinacity in following up clues
worked in excellently with his own skill at putting two and
two together. Blaikie, he would often say, could not reason;
but he could find things out. He, Wilson, stuck there in
his office, could not go hunting for clues; but he and Blaikie
together were a first-class combination. He was sitting at
his desk, busy with a mass of papers, when the inspector
entered. He at once put his work aside and settled down to
discuss the new case. Word of the second murder had already
been sent to him over the telephone; and he had seen that the
case was certain to make a stir. The connection of the victims
with Sir Vernon Brooklyn and the Piccadilly Theatre was
enough to ensure a first-class newspaper sensation. There was
an unusual note of eagerness in his voice as he asked for
the latest news.</p>

<p>“The trouble about this case, sir,” said Inspector Blaikie,
“is that it’s as plain as a pikestaff; but what the clues plainly
indicate cannot possibly be true. Perhaps I had better tell
you the whole story from the beginning.”</p>

<p>Superintendent Wilson nodded, put the tips of his fingers
together, leant back in his chair, and finally closed his eyes.
He had composed himself to listen.</p>

<p>“I went to Liskeard House shortly before half-past eight
this morning, on receipt of a telephone message stating that
a murder had been committed.”</p>

<p>“Who sent the message?”</p>

<p>“One of the servants. They had found the body when
they went in to clean the room in the morning. I went
to the house, as I say. In a room on the second floor, a
study, I found the body, which the servants identified as
that of Mr. John Prinsep, by whom the second floor was
occupied. Mr. Prinsep was managing director of the Brooklyn
Corporation and nephew of Sir Vernon Brooklyn.”</p>

<p>The superintendent nodded.</p>

<p>“The body was lying on the floor with the face upwards.
A knife, which I have since found to be of a peculiar type
used by architects and draughtsmen, was protruding from the
chest in the region of the heart. On the side of the head
was a very clearly marked contusion, obviously caused by a
heavy blow from some blunt instrument, which cannot have
been any object of furniture in the room. The dead man’s
doctor, Dr. Manton, and the police surgeon agree that this
blow, and not the knife wound, was the cause of death. The
knife did not touch any vital part, and the doctors believe that
the wound in the chest was inflicted after death.”</p>

<p>“You say ‘believe.’ Are they certain?”</p>

<p>“No; almost certain, but not so as to swear to it. I at
once made an examination of the room. The dead man had
evidently been sitting at his desk, and had fallen from his
chair on being struck from behind on the left-hand side. On
the desk was a mass of papers relating to the financial affairs
of a Mr. Walter Brooklyn, a brother, I find, of Sir Vernon
Brooklyn, and therefore uncle to the deceased. I have the
papers here.”</p>

<p>The inspector handed over a bundle which the
superintendent placed beside him on the table. “Go on,” he said.</p>

<p>“Lying on the floor, at some distance from the body, was
this walking-stick, which may, or may not, have some
connection with the crime. There were at least thirty or forty
walking-sticks standing in a corner; but this was lying on
the floor behind the study chair to the left⁠—that is, at the
point from which the murderer seems to have approached his
victim. The servants say that they do not remember seeing
the stick before; but they cannot be certain, as the deceased
collected sticks. This is evidently a curio, made, I think, of
rhinoceros horn.”</p>

<p>The superintendent examined the stick for a moment, and
then put it down beside him.</p>

<p>“Dr. Manton then arrived, and, after a preliminary
examination, asked that the body should be removed to the
adjoining bedroom. When it was lifted up there was revealed,
lying beneath it, this handkerchief which, as you see, is marked
in the corner with the name ‘G. Brooklyn.’ Mr. George
Brooklyn, I have ascertained, is also a nephew of Sir Vernon
Brooklyn. He is, moreover, an architect by profession, and
might therefore easily have been in possession of the knife
found embedded in the body. Winter, the butler at the
house, has often seen him using a knife of this precise
pattern.”</p>

<p>“H’m,” said the superintendent.</p>

<p>“I made inquiries among the servants. The last of them
to see Mr. Prinsep alive was the butler, Winter, who
collected from him his late letters for the post. That was at
10.30 or thereabouts. The deceased was sitting at his table,
working at a lot of figures. He seemed in a bad temper,
but that, Winter says, was nothing unusual. But from the
same Winter I obtained a very valuable piece of evidence.
At about a quarter to eleven Mr. George Brooklyn called
to see the deceased. He said he would show himself upstairs,
and did so. He was seen by Winter and the other servants
leaving the house by the front door at about 11.30. It was on
receiving this information that I telephoned to you asking for
the immediate arrest of Mr. George Brooklyn, who was
believed to be staying at the Cunningham Hotel.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said the superintendent. “I sent two men round
there. They were informed that Mr. Brooklyn had booked
rooms, and that his wife had spent the night in the hotel.
He had not been there since the previous day before dinner.
I was about to take further steps when I received your second
message.”</p>

<p>“Quite so. Now I come, sir, to the really extraordinary
part of the case. Immediately before telephoning to you I
had received an urgent message to come down to the garden,
where the sergeant was making investigations. In the garden
I found a body, which was identified by a young lady who
lives in the house⁠—Sir Vernon Brooklyn’s ward, I
understand⁠—as that of Mr. George Brooklyn himself. He was in
evening dress, without hat or coat, and the body was lying on
the steps of a curious sort of stone summer house⁠—they call
it the Grecian temple⁠—where it had been dragged. The
cause of death⁠—the doctors confirm this⁠—was a terrific blow
on the back of the head, and the weapon was lying a few yards
from the body. I have it here in the parcel.” The inspector
lifted the heavy club with an effort on to the table, and the
superintendent gave an involuntary start of surprise as he
saw the strange weapon that had been employed in this
sinister tragedy.</p>

<p>“It is, as you see, sir, a heavy stone club. It is part of a
group of statuary⁠—a Hercules, they tell me⁠—which stands
in the garden about four yards from the summer-house or
temple. It has obviously been detached for some time from
the rest of the statue. On it are some bloodstains and hairs
which correspond to those of the dead man. There are also
finger-prints, which I suppose you will have examined. I
took the precaution to secure finger-prints of both the dead
men for possible use. They are here.” The inspector handed
over another parcel.</p>

<p>“I studied carefully the scene of the crime. The deed
was evidently done almost at the foot of the statue, and the
body was dragged from there to the temple, presumably to
remove it from casual notice. At the foot of the statue I
found this crushed cigar-holder, which Miss Joan Cowper⁠—the
young lady to whom I referred⁠—identifies as habitually
used by Mr. John Prinsep, and actually seen in his mouth
at ten o’clock last night, when a party then held in the house
broke up. I also found on the floor of the temple this
crumpled piece of paper, presumably a leaf from a
memorandum book,” and the inspector handed over the brief
scrawled note in John Prinsep’s writing making an
appointment in the garden.</p>

<p>What he said, however, was not quite accurate; for it was
not he, but Carter Woodman, who had found the note.</p>

<p>“The writing of this note was identified by Miss Cowper
as that of Mr. Prinsep. It is one of the puzzles of this
affair.”</p>

<p>“You mean that it would have fitted in better if John
Prinsep’s body had been found in the garden,” suggested
the superintendent.</p>

<p>“Exactly; as things are it is confusing. About this time
Mr. Carter Woodman, Sir Vernon Brooklyn’s lawyer,
arrived. At his suggestion we went across to the theatre which
overlooks the garden, although the place where the crime was
committed and the body found is completely concealed by
trees from both the house and the theatre. Our object was to
find if any one from the theatre had seen anything of what
happened. A caretaker stated that he had seen Mr. Prinsep
walking in the garden some time between eleven o’clock last
night and a quarter past. I made further inquiries, both in
the house and at the theatre; but that, I think, exhausts the
discoveries I have made so far.” And the inspector stopped
and wiped his face with a green handkerchief.</p>

<p>“You have stated the case very plainly,” said Superintendent
Wilson. “Now tell me what you make of it?” And
he gave what can best be described as the ghost of a chuckle.</p>

<p>“Ah, that’s just where the troubles come in, sir,” replied
the inspector. “I don’t know what to make of it. As I said,
it’s as plain as a pikestaff, and yet it can’t be. When I
examined Mr. Prinsep’s room I found abundant evidence
pointing to the conclusion that he was murdered by Mr. George
Brooklyn. But when I go into the garden, I find Mr. George
Brooklyn lying dead there, under circumstances which strongly
suggest that he was killed by Mr. Prinsep. Yet they can’t
possibly have killed each other. It’s simply impossible.”</p>

<p>“You say that there is strong ground for suspecting that
Prinsep killed Brooklyn. What is the ground?”</p>

<p>“Well, first there’s that cigar-holder. The second thing
is the letter in his writing, though I admit that raises a
difficulty. The third thing is that I’m practically certain
the finger-prints on the club correspond to those I took from
Prinsep’s hands. Then Prinsep was certainly seen walking
in the garden.”</p>

<p>“In short, Inspector Blaikie,” said the superintendent, half
smiling, “you appear to hold very strong prima facie evidence
that each of these two men murdered the other.”</p>

<p>The inspector groaned. “Don’t laugh at me, sir,” he said.
“I’m doing my best to puzzle it out. Of course they didn’t
kill each other. At least, both of them didn’t. They couldn’t.
You know what I mean.”</p>

<p>“You mean, I take it, that they could only have killed
each other and left their bodies where they were found, on
the assumption that at least one corpse was alive enough to
walk about and commit a murder and then quietly replace
itself where it had been killed. It will, I fear, be difficult
to persuade even a coroner’s jury that such an account of
the circumstances is correct.”</p>

<p>“Of course it isn’t correct, sir; but you’ll admit that’s what
it looks like. It is quite possible for a man who has
committed a murder to be murdered himself as he leaves the
scene of his crime; but it’s stark, staring nonsense for the man
whom he has killed to get up, as if he were alive and well, and
come after his murderer with a club. To say nothing of
laying himself out again neatly afterwards. No, that won’t
wash. Yet the evidence both ways is thoroughly good
evidence.”</p>

<p>“We can agree, inspector, that these two men did not
kill each other. But it remains possible, even probable, on
the evidence you have so far secured, that one of them did
kill the other, and was then himself killed by some third
person unknown, possibly a witness of the first crime bent on
exacting retribution. How does that strike you?” The
superintendent thrust his hands deep into his pockets and leant
back in his chair with a satisfied look, as if he had scored a
point.</p>

<p>Inspector Blaikie’s face, however, hardly became less
doleful. “Yes, that’s possible,” he said; “but unfortunately there
is absolutely nothing to show which set of circumstantial
clues ought to be accepted and which discarded in that case.
We do not know which of the two men was killed first.
When Brooklyn went to see Prinsep, did he murder him then
and there in the study, or did Prinsep decoy his visitor into
the garden by means of the note we have found, and there
kill him? Either theory fits some of the facts: neither fits
them all. I don’t know which to think, or which to work on as
a basis. The evidence we have probably points in the right
direction in one of the cases, and in the wrong direction in
the other; but how are we to tell which is right and which is
wrong? There is nothing to lay hold of.”</p>

<p>“What about the medical evidence as to the time of death?
Does that throw any light on the case?”</p>

<p>“None whatever, unfortunately. In both instances the
doctors agree that death almost certainly took place at some
time between 10.30 and 12 o’clock. But they say it is
impossible to time the thing any more accurately than that.”</p>

<p>“Come, that seems at least to narrow the field of inquiry.
When were each of these men last seen alive?”</p>

<p>The inspector referred to his notes. “John Prinsep was
seen at 10.30 by the servant, Winter, who went to fetch his
letters for the post. He was seen in the garden at some
time between 11 o’clock and 11.15 by the caretaker at the
Piccadilly Theatre, Jabez Smith, and also, I have since
ascertained, by a dresser named Laura Rose about the same time.
No one seems to have seen him later than about 11.15. His
body was found in his study this morning at ten minutes past
eight by the maid, Sarah Plenty, and seen immediately
afterwards by the household servants, William Winter and Peter
Morgan.”</p>

<p>“And George Brooklyn?”</p>

<p>“He was seen at about a quarter to eleven by Winter and
other servants, when he called at Liskeard House and went
up by himself to John Prinsep’s room. He was seen again,
by Winter and two other servants, leaving the house at
about 11.30. He did not go home to his hotel, and neither
his wife nor any one else I have been able to discover saw
him again. His body was discovered at 9.30 this morning
in the garden of Liskeard House by his cousin, Joan Cowper.”</p>

<p>“That certainly does not seem to help us very much. In
the case of Prinsep, he may have died any time after 11.19.
Brooklyn was still alive at 11.30.”</p>

<p>“Yes; but, if Brooklyn killed Prinsep, it seems he must
have done so between 11.15, when Prinsep was still alive,
and 11.30, when Brooklyn was seen leaving the house.”</p>

<p>“That does not follow at all. We know he came back
after 11.30, since he was found dead in the grounds. The first
question is, How and when did he come back?”</p>

<p>“I have made every possible inquiry about that. The front
door was bolted at about 11.45, and Winter is positive that
he did not come in again that way. There are two other
ways into the garden. One is through the coach-yard. That
was locked and bolted about 11, and was found untouched
this morning. The other is through the theatre. Nobody saw
him, and the caretaker says he could not have gone through
that way without being seen. But it appears that the door
from the theatre into the garden was not locked until nearly
midnight, and it is just possible he may have slipped through
that way. He seems to have been seen in the theatre earlier
in the evening⁠—before his call at Liskeard House at 10.45.”</p>

<p>“Was it a usual thing for Prinsep to walk about the garden
at night?”</p>

<p>“Yes, they tell me that he often took a stroll there on fine
nights before going to bed.”</p>

<p>The superintendent rubbed his chin thoughtfully. “I can
only see one thing for it,” he said. “We have no evidence to
show which of these men died first, and therefore, which, if
either of them, killed the other. You must follow up both sets
of clues until you get further evidence to show which is the
right one. But remember that, even if one murder can be
accounted for in that way, there is still another murderer
somewhere at large⁠—unless another unexpected corpse turns up
with clear evidence of having been murdered by one of the
other two.”</p>

<p>The inspector laughed. “Well,” he said, “it all seems a
bit of a puzzle. It seems to me the next thing is to find out
whether either of them had any special reason for murdering
the other. If you agree, I shall work up the antecedents of
the case, and do a little research into the family history.”</p>

<p>“Yes, that’s probably the best we can do for the present.
But spread the net wide. Find out all you can about the whole
family and the servants⁠—every one who is known to have
been in the house last night⁠—every one who could have any
reason for desiring the death of either or both of the murdered
men.”</p>

<p>“I suppose one of them must have murdered the other,” said
the inspector reflectively.</p>

<p>“I see no sufficient reason for thinking that,” replied his
superior. “It looks to me more like a very carefully planned
affair, worked out by some third party. But we mustn’t
take anything for granted. Your immediate job is certainly
to follow up the clues you have found. Even if they do not
lead where we expect them to lead, they will probably lead
somewhere. A deliberately laid false clue is often just as
useful as an ordinary straightforward clue in the long run.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I’ll keep my eyes open,” said the inspector, “and as
there is a third party involved in any case, it’s worth
remembering that he could not easily have got into the house
after midnight at the latest, and I’m blest if I see how he could
have got out of it and left all the doors properly fastened
unless he had an accomplice inside.”</p>

<p>“That is certainly a point. Every one who slept in the
house is certainly worth watching. What about the
men-servants?”</p>

<p>“Only two⁠—Morgan and Winter⁠—sleep in the house.
Morgan says he came back about 11.30, after spending the
evening with friends in Hammersmith. He and Winter
went up to their rooms together soon after. Morgan’s room
can only be reached through Winter’s. Winter says he lay
awake for some hours⁠—he is a bad sleeper⁠—and heard Morgan
snoring in the next room all the time. He did not go to sleep
until after he had heard two o’clock strike. He says he is a
light sleeper, and Morgan could not have passed through his
room without waking him.”</p>

<p>“That seems to clear Morgan, if Winter is speaking the
truth. What about Winter himself? A good deal seems to
turn on his testimony.”</p>

<p>“Winter is a very old servant. He has been in the family
since he was a boy. He doesn’t strike me as at all the kind
of man to be mixed up in an affair of this sort. Morgan is
rather a sly fellow⁠—much more the sort of man one would be
inclined to suspect.”</p>

<p>“You are probably right; but we must not let Winter off
too easily. Suppose it is true that one of these two men did
kill the other. Isn’t an old devoted family servant, if he
saw the crime, just the man to take his revenge? There have
been many crimes with far less strong a motive.”</p>

<p>“I will certainly have Winter watched, and Morgan too.
But I’m not at all hopeful. It’s too well planned to be a
sudden crime, and I’m sure Winter’s not the man for a
high-class job of this sort.”</p>

<p>“Do the best you can, and keep me fully informed about
the case. If I have a brain-wave, I’ll let you know. At
present I can’t see light any more than you.”</p>

<p>With that unsatisfactory conclusion the two detectives
parted. Superintendent Wilson, left alone, walked quickly
up and down the room, chuckling to himself, and every now
and then marking off a point on his fingers, or pausing in his
walk to examine one of the clues which the inspector had left
in his keeping. He appeared to find it a fascinating case.</p>



		</section>
	</body>
</html>
